the bond market has this confidence that
the Fed is going to stick to its 2%
inflation target.
>> If you get a really bad print on
inflation this week, then I think the
long end could easily easily go up.
>> We are expecting the Fed to cut rates.
>> If the Fed wants to cut rates to
stimulate an economy with no excess
capacity, they're just going to create
more inflation.
>> We think inflation, you know, lingers a
little higher. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, looking for some big
revisions. Economists expecting another
big jobs markdown to set the stage for
rate cuts as the Goldman Sachs boss is
playing down just how restrictive Fed
policy is. The stock market is once
again within 0.1% from all-time highs
just days after weaker than expected
data.
>> There's a real contradiction here and I
feel like everyone is struggling with
this. On one hand, people are pointing
to a labor market that clearly seems to
have entered a new cycle of some sort.
Yesterday, we saw consumer expectations
for finding a new job fall to the lowest
in a series of data going back to 2013.
At the same time, that inflation
expectations are ticking up. Square that
circle. You expect there to be enough
weakness to tamp down inflation. and yet
not enough weakness to torpedo a risk
rally. This is what people are
struggling with.
>> Well, let's struggle with the weakness
we might see in the labor market once
again later on this morning at 10 a.m.
Eastern time. We could see a major
benchmark revision 800k, maybe even a
million.
>> And that means that for this White
House, it is going to be incredibly
challenging to try to explain what is
going on as they are trying to say that
there is strength right now in this
economy. The fact of the matter is if we
get this second revision compared to
what we saw also last year overstating
potentially the econom economy by 1
million jobs, you basically have to look
at this and say the Trump administration
inherited a much weaker economy than
many thought. And that is what is so
interesting that the Wall Street Journal
has this report that right now Trump's
adviserss are looking at a report that
might be very critical to the BLS.
>> Yeah, the timing here is pretty
important, isn't it, Lisa? If we get
these massive revisions once again, it's
another reason for this White House to
put more pressure on the BLS
>> on the BLS at a time where they already
have gotten rid of the head and
potentially might get rid of other
people. My question isn't who are they
going to get rid of? It's who are they
going to put in? What are they going to
do to fortify the methodologies of the
Bureau of Labor Statistics so that they
are more reliable statistic. In the
meantime, you have a situation where a
Federal Reserve has been relying on
numbers that have overstated the
economy, which raises the spectre of
being late. And how do you play catch-up
given the lack of certainty around where
we are currently in the economic cycle?
And how does Trump explain the Fed
cutting rates that in September?
Remember, it was like around this time
last year, he was on the campaign trail
at a crypto bar in downtown New York.
The Fed cut rates and he was asked about
it and he said, "Well, actually, that
means the economy is probably weaker
than we expected under the Biden
administration." What is he going to
answer for this time around?
>> Look, the Fed is often criticized and
sometimes correctly, but last year, if
we are a whole lot weaker than we
thought. To Amarie's point, the Federal
Reserve and that push to cut interest
rates by 100 basis points is vindicated
based on the revisions we might get
later this morning.
>> So, if they're vindicated, why are
people so excited about the start of a
new cycle? This is what I was alluding
to earlier. this idea that risk assets,
as you were talking about, John, so
close to all-time highs, closing out
yesterday with the NASDAQ at all-time
highs yet again, one day after another,
creeping into this risk asset rally of a
Fed that's going to backs stop it. At
the same time that we're talking about a
potential sea change when it comes to
the labor market dynamics, Dan
Greenhouse yesterday really nailed it
from Solless when he said something
feels different and no one should look
for a turn in the labor market.
>> It's a super odd disconnect right now.
The labor markets asking for rate cuts.
financial markets. Financial markets are
priced pretty richly here, which goes to
the point that the Goldman Sachs boss
David Solomon is making. Look, when
David Solomon is talking about interest
rates, he's talking about financial
conditions. What the market needs and
what the economy wants can be two very,
very different things. And that's what's
interesting about this setup. The labor
market is asking for rate cuts.
Financial markets aren't at all. Edard
Denny joins us later this morning, and
he's talking about the prospect of
financial instability if this Federal
Reserve goes big in the next few
meetings. He to me has one of the most
interesting points because he's been
talking about the roaring 20s and how a
lot of what we're seeing in terms of
market activity points to that roaring
20s. You get a rate cut, you supercharge
it into bubble territory and then you
have a problem. On the flip side, how
far divorced has the S&P 500 gotten from
the underlying economy? Given that small
businesses, lower income families are
all struggling with costs of housing,
costs of basic goods, costs of cars that
are skyrocketing out of their income
bracket.
>> The stocks are up again this morning,
positive by a tenth of 1% on the S&P
500. Coming up this hour, we'll catch up
with Max Kender of HSBC on why he's
bullish into year end. We speak to Neil
Data of Renmack looking ahead to big
revisions on US payrolls and Alexander
Aronov of JP Morgan Asset Management
warning the Fed risk spurring inflation.
We begin this hour with stock steady
following a record close for the NASDAQ
100. Max Kentner of HSBC writing the
following. We remain firmly risk into
the final four months of 2025. We remain
overweight both high yield and equities
preferring US equities the most. M joins
us now for more. Max, welcome to the
program. Sir, you're bullish into year
end. Let's start with why.
Yeah, good morning and thanks for having
me. Look, I I think actually uh what you
guys were just talking about how sort of
disconnected can the S&P become from the
overall economy. Let's remember that
actually the Q2 reporting season has
been pretty much the best earning season
since co since 2021 since we had these
ridiculous strong earnings beats both in
terms of the earnings beat rate but also
in terms of how much companies have
surprised to the upside. So, we're just
exiting Q2 with really the biggest
corporate strength in about four years.
So, I would say there isn't really much
of a disconnect. There might be a
disconnect on the weakest part of the
economy, but that's not what the S&P of
course is representing, particularly not
the mega caps. And of course, the weaker
dollar effects, they really, really do
help particularly the largest uh
companies within the S&P 500. And that's
still going to be the case in Q3 and Q4.
Bear in mind that not only is it the Q2
reportings these not only the beats that
we just have seen it's not just about Q2
but it's also about going forward when
we look at our own data uh we run
something called guidance sentiment
indicators where we look at really the
forward-looking statements of CEOs and
CFOs in earnings calls and they're
telling us both in Europe and
particularly in the US things are
getting better. It's not just about
tariffs. It's not just about the
day-to-day noise on on politics, but
really the underlying corporate strength
is improving. And on top of that, when
we look at you the number of companies
within the S&P upgrading their guidance
relative to the ones that are
downgrading their guidance, that clearly
is going up as well, in particular also
since the reporting season. So all of
that is telling us underlying corporate
fundamentals have in fact improved very
much and particularly in the last 2 3
months uh uh around you know since the
end of liberation day already.
>> So Max perhaps we should be even more
specific. The disconnect we're talking
about directly is the disconnect between
the labor market and corporate profits.
And Max given everything you've just
said is that a disconnect that needs to
reconcile anytime soon. Can we carry on
minting fantastic corporate profits even
with this weaker labor market?
I do think we can because let's remember
that what's happening on the on the
labor market is really a weaker labor
market and much much lower payrolls in
large parts because of the reversal of
immigration right it's not because you
know it's just about demand I'm sure
there is also some demand effects going
on there as well but let's remember a
large part of that is because we had
this massive massive reversal in
immigration flows really since the start
of the year and that of course is um
really prompting payrolls and break even
payrolls in particular so that the
number of payrolls in order to keep the
unemployment rate steady and unchanged.
It it makes it much much lower and and
probably in the next couple of months
even converge towards zero and that of
course means that you know even like a
100k number on payrolls is pretty much
unthinkable I think for the time being
given again that reversal of immigration
flows that is not yet really affecting
economic activity. Can that do so maybe
in 2026 down the line? Sure. But in the
next 6 months, let's remember we got,
you know, we got got fiscal stimulus.
We've got even more fiscal stimulus.
Next year, we'll probably have some
positive effects from even higher tax
rebates. We've got a positive wealth
effect from uh uh real estate prices
plus obviously from from higher
equities. We've still got positive real
wage growth. All of that really still
keeps consumption still pretty pretty
healthy. And then you look at corporate
profits and you look at that AI tailwind
which now is affecting pretty much half
of the S&P plus the effects the tailwind
from the weaker dollar. All of that is a
perfect cocktail for further risk on.
And then on top of that, you throw on
rate cuts that actually from a growth
perspective, we kind of don't need and
certainly from a financial condition
perspective, we don't need. And that's
an even more potent, Max, because if
what you're saying is correct, and a lot
of the labor market weakness is a head
fake that really is predicated on a
complete change in immigration, then why
aren't you in the Eddieard Denny camp
that any kind of rate cuts is only going
to turbocharge a financial asset bubble
that will lead to financial instability?
Yeah, but look uh even if uh even if
that was the case, Lisa, let's let's
remember um if this was to prompt a
financial asset bubble or if this was uh
to to end up in sort of a a financial
asset meltup, what do you do? Well, your
risk gone. You really invest in those
assets the most that benefit from a
continued higher nominal growth world.
What's the best liquid nominal asset
class? It's equities. And you know you
you continue shunning particularly long
end bonds particularly the 30 I think
the rally that we've seen in the last
couple of couple of days you know from
5% down to almost 465 in in the 30 in
treasuries that really doesn't look
justified in in in that regard. So even
if it was to lead to a bubble down the
line, fine. It's down the line. Is that
already the case now? No. That still
means I need to get exposure to that
nominally grow most growing uh uh asset
class, which of course is equities.
>> So Max, there are a number of people who
are throwing things at the TV this
morning as they listen to you. Neil Dut,
who's going to be on in just a bit, is
one of them who says that he rejects
these arguments and actually sees no
case for reaceleration next year. Other
people might be people who just recently
graduated college and cannot find a job
as well as anyone else who is out of a
job and is having the hardest time in
data going back to at least 2013 finding
new employment. How do you sort of
discount that in your scenario of a
reaceleration? Is that just noise or is
there something else going on here that
potentially clouds some of this story?
>> No, I do think on the labor market, the
labor market is probably somewhat really
different from the broader activity uh
um perspective right now, right? from
the of broader backdrop right now simply
because when we you just looked at the
labor market and said look uh probably
firing is still pretty low. Yes, job
cuts have gone up fine but they're not
yet at levels that really uh are kind of
telling us we should be overly concerned
yet but of course in order to get a job
it's pretty tricky. So the labor market
is probably somewhat disconnected from
uh the broader activity standpoint. Can
that go on for 3 4 5 years? No. Can that
go on for another 3 to 6 months?
Absolutely. And then again down the line
maybe at some point in 2026 that needs
to reconnect. Absolutely. But for the
next quarter, next two quarters, I think
that disconnect can continue. In
particular, if we do get the rate cuts
and that then spurs a bit of extra
activity, we get the get the uh uh um
the positive lagged impulse from those
rate cuts coming through because you
also said in terms of reaceleration, you
me mentioned that reaceleration. Let's
be honest, we look at all the high
frequency data that's all pulling up. We
look at, you know, even on on the labor
market side, the temporary staffing
index has been going up in the last two
months. Same store retail sales are
going up. Credit card data is going up.
Even Visa spending momentum uh uh index
is going up. So particularly on the
consumption side of things since the end
of June and the beginning of July. So
really the last two two and a half
months high frequency data in the US
particularly on the consumption side
really is looking like it's actually
trending up a little bit and we are
seeing that in aggregate now cast as
well of proxies. Look at the the Fed's
weekly activity index that's been going
up as well in the last two months as
well as you look at the Atlanta Fed's
GDP. Now we're tracking at 3% for Q3
which is much higher. You know, we
started consensus started this quarter
with round about half a percent of GDP
growth. Again, much higher than
consensus growth. So, overall activity,
broader activity, industrial production,
retail sales, consumption, all of that
is still really healthy. And if
anything, has shown signs of improvement
in the last two months.
>> And Max, we're getting closer. Let's put
a bow on it. I'll just be direct. What
would make you bearish?
I think one thing that would make me
bearish is if we get let's say if we get
really two three months of negative
payroll data that probably would be uh
what makes me quite cautious because
then we get the rate cuts for the wrong
reasons then we get the the rate cuts
really because activity has already
slowed so much you don't think that's
what this is right now
>> no no because what this is really I
think a lot of this what this is is
really due to immigration reversal right
so I do think look what we had over the
last four or five months. Yes, the
unemployment rate has going has gone up,
but it's really edged up very very
slowly even though effectively you know
we've seen payrolls almost go to a
standstill and that of course is a lot
of that has to be due to that
immigration reversal. So it's very hard
to really disentangle the immigration
flows or the demand and the supply
effects there really. So I I don't think
we're quite at that point yet and
particularly financial conditions don't
tell us that. Right? financial
conditions. When we look at credit
spreads, we look at equities, all of
that again tells us that actually we
continue to have a positive wealth
effect. We have positive real wage
growth. And let's be honest, the first
10% uh um in terms of in terms of income
percentiles, they account for half of
consumption. So, as long as that is
ticking along nicely, that actually
tells us that consumption overall is
still continuing to be on a very strong
footing, I think.
>> Max Ker of HSBC. Max enjoyed this. Thank
you, sir. the bullish case. Standing up
the bullish case this morning.
>> Yeah. Talking about how a lot of this is
a technical ramification from
immigration. Other people would argue
that there's a positive spin if there
was slower momentum heading into this
year. Well, it hasn't slowed that much
more materially if we did come off a low
base. Other people would argue, can you
really discount college graduates? Can
you really discount people who lose
their jobs and can't find a new one? Can
you really discount sentiment that's
really been deteriorating?
>> Also, what about last year? the fact
that we had 800,000
jobs lost those revisions last year
before Trump came into office before
there was new immigration policy. So
this would be the second time in a row
that you have a massive down revision
only one time of that partially
immigration policy is impacting the
labor market.
>> This debate is going to continue. Neil
data of you said is going to join us
later on the program. Neil's going to
have some things to say about the
argument that was just presented. So
we'll get a range of views this hour.
Before we get there, let's get you an
update on News Worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara Arnand.
Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. French President Emanuel
Mcronone is searching for a new prime
minister for the fifth time in less than
two years after Francois Bau lost a
confidence vote in parliament. Byru will
present his government's resignation to
the president this morning after failing
to win support for his plans to cut the
deficit. Mcronone says he'll appoint a
new premier in the coming days.
Meanwhile, here, President Trump
extended his immigration crackdown to
Chicago. Operation Midway Blitz is
targeting what the White House calls
criminal illegal aliens in the city and
other parts of Illinois. The Department
of Homeland Security blamed Democratic
Governor JB Pritsker for sanctuary
policies that it said helped protect
lawb breakakers. And the Senate Banking
Committee will vote tomorrow on White
House economic adviser Steven Myron's
nomination to the Fed Board of
Governors. This paves the way for
potentially full Senate confirmation
September 15th on Monday, just one day
before the Fed's critical policy
meeting. The central bank is widely
expected to cut interest rates for the
first time since December. That's
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. If we could live stream
that meeting box office pay-per-view
next week.
>> That I think especially with a new Steve
a newly placed Steven Meyer. Can you
imagine? Do you think that some people
will not want him to sit at their table?
Do you think it's going to be like Mean
Girls? I think a little bit
>> with us.
>> Yeah,
>> actually don't. Sorry.
>> I can chairman pal.
>> You can't share my paper.
>> Yeah. Up next on the program. Not that.
The BLS under pressure.
>> We need accurate numbers coming from
BLS. And finally, we'll have new
leadership to deliver. Donald Trump
needs to rely upon the numbers. America
needs to rely upon the numbers.
>> Just what is going on? We'll get the
view from Bloomberg's Mcki in just a
moment. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
record high at the close on the NASDAQ
100 in yesterday's session on the S&P
within just 0.1% of all-time highs on
the S&P 500 just the Day after the
trading day after a weaker thanex
expected payrolls report last Friday.
This morning on the Russell small caps
just about unchanged under Sylvanas this
morning jobs in focus once again. The
BLS under pressure.
So they need new leadership in BLS
that's for sure. They need new tech and
BLS. That's for sure. And Donald Trump
needs to rely upon the numbers. America
needs to rely upon the numbers. You
can't have these bent former
administration people who have a view
and who want to harm the president. We
need accurate numbers coming from BLS.
And finally, we'll have new leadership
to deliver.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
White House ramping up pressure on the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. People
familiar with the matter telling the
Wall Street Journal that President
Trump's administration is preparing a
new report critical of the agency. With
the latest, here's Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, this of
course comes against the backdrop of an
unprecedented level of criticism by the
White House against uh what's
historically considered to be a routine
process. And the Wall Street Journal is
reporting that the administration is
weighing publishing this report compiled
by the Council of Economic Adviserss on
the BLS's alleged shortcomings within
the next few weeks, signaling to us that
this pressure campaign isn't going away,
particularly as we wait for these
preliminary benchmark revisions today.
Though they only cover part of the first
three months of the Trump
administration, it's likely opening the
door for officials to criticize the last
administration. But this White House has
been really critical of the revision
process. And experts tell us that these
revisions have been larger in recent
years, partly due to declining response
rates. Now, we're watching really
closely a few different things here, but
I will point out that the NEC director
Kevin Hassid did suggest to me on Friday
that he actually thinks August numbers
are going to be revised up. He pointed
to a recent analysis by Goldman Sachs
that suggests that the later reporting
submissions for the month actually tend
to be higher. So, a few different
justifications from the administration,
but it's clear that they are going to
keep ramping up this pressure campaign.
And John, as you well know, August
numbers marked the first time that the
new report came out since President
Trump had fired the last BLS
commissioner. Currently, there's an
acting commissioner in place. He's been
at the agency since 2015. as we wait for
the Senate to take up President Trump's
pick to replace the last commissioner.
That's EJ and Tony. He's currently the
chief economist at the Heritage
Foundation, a conservative uh
organization based here in Washington.
As of yet, there hasn't been a
nomination uh confirmation hearing date
set quite yet.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Appreciate it. Bremo, we've
been through this a few times. Does it
feel different this morning? Does it
feel different this time? Well, it feels
different because of the response coming
from the White House and the likely
changeover in staff. Yet again, it also
is different in terms of already the
changeover in staff that we've seen with
respect to not only the top of the
ticket, but also below some of the
career staff members. Why should they
stay? And so this raises a question, not
should things change, how should things
change, and exactly who are they going
to be putting in that place?
>> Also, I think the administration needs
to get on the same page on whether or
not they like certain research at
certain banks. You just heard Tyler
there talk about how Kevin Hasset is
saying how Goldman Sachs is saying he's
seeing this revision potentially from
August. It's a noisy month. What did the
Treasury Secretary say over the weekend?
He made a career a living betting
against Goldman Sachs.
>> I think we're cherrypicking just a
little bit. Let's cherrypick a little
bit more with Bloomberg's Mike McKe.
Mike, good morning. Sir, I'm joking of
course. Walk us through the process that
we can expect to go through later on
this morning. Well, basically, John,
once a year the BLS updates its data
using unemployment insurance records
that come in. It's the quarterly census
of uh employment and wages. And then uh
they put out a a report that aligns
those numbers with what they've done the
year before. And they do it uh for the
year that ends in March. So what we're
going to get today is a report that will
say in March of last year there were
somewhere between 800,000 and a million
fewer jobs in the United States. And
then you compare that to what the BLS
had initially reported and you get the
difference uh that we're talking about.
So the issue is not so much whether the
BLS is manipulating things, it's the
size of the change. Last year 800,000
was the preliminary estimate. I stress
preliminary because these numbers will
be revised again by the time they are f
finalized in February of next year with
the January employment report. Last year
we had 818,000
initial uh preliminary job losses, but
it ended up being 589,000.
>> Mike, just quickly, there have been a
lot of economists who've been critical
of the Bureau of Labor Statistics data
just by virtue of the response levels,
how quickly the response has come in, as
well as some of these revisions. What
are some of the tangible things the BLS
could do to make their data more
reliable for Wall Street and frankly
during the first read, not just just the
second, third, and fourth reads?
>> Well, this is one of the issues here
because this CEA report seems to be the
president says there's something wrong,
so we're going to find something wrong.
Well, everybody uh who has worked with
the BLS or is in the statistical
business knows some of the issues and
you've talked about them. the low
initial response rate. Uh CO caused a
lot of issues with seasonal adjustment.
Hiring patterns change that's working
its way slowly out of the data, but it's
still in there and everybody knows
that's the case. They're also severely
understaffed. 20% fewer workers than
they had in January thanks to the Doge
efforts and the president's efforts to
fire people and uh early retirements
that were offered. And they've been
having their budget cut for years. So to
develop new systems to update their
computer systems etc hasn't been
possible. So there's a lot that could be
done if you wanted to sit there and say
how do we fix this rather than just
criticize.
>> Mike McKe appreciate the update. Stay
close. It's going to be a busy morning
for Mike. Just think about to those
payrolls Fridays. links back to those
days over the last 12 months if they
were 70k lower. How different the
conversation and the market action would
have been on any given morning
>> and how much the Fed has to play
catch-up just like they did last year
around this exact same time.
>> Up next on the program, we'll get Neil
Data's view over at Renmack as we await
payroll revisions. Plus, we'll touch
base with Danny with your morning movers
as an AI cloud deal sends one stock
absolutely soaring.
Pretty
[Music]
muted price action to kick off the
trading week. Equities just about
positive in the last 24 hours. Up again
this morning by a tenth of 1% within a
tenth of the close yesterday of alltime
highs. Record highs on the NASDAQ 100.
4-day winning streak coming into
Tuesday. Speaking of a 4-day winning
streak, check out the front end of the
yield curve for four consecutive days.
Yields lower. Yields a bit higher this
morning by a basis point but lower over
the previous four sessions to 349 85 on
twos on 10ens. The last time the Fed met
the yield on a 10-year was around about
423. Two week payrolls later and we're
testing breaking down to the 3s. It's a
big change in this bond market.
>> We haven't just seen a change in when
the Fed could cut rates. It's a matter
of how far they could go in this near
term. We're now talking about the
possibility of a 50 basis point rate cut
next week, but more importantly, a
neutral rate that is far below where we
thought maybe just a couple of months
ago.
>> The Federal Reserve gearing up to cut
rates. The Bank of Japan might be
hiking. Check this out. Dollar yen with
this move negative by 3/4 of 1% on that
currency pair. That's a stronger
Japanese currency so far this morning.
The team here at Bloomberg over in Tokyo
reporting that the BOJ and officials are
of the view that it might be possible to
raise benchmark interest rates again at
some point this year. despite some of
the political pressure that they could
face given that Prime Minister Oshiba is
stepping down. This is just coming days
after the yen sold off this weakening
that we saw on the heels of that
announcement. Now people saying wait a
second maybe the Bank of Japan is
independent
>> possibly maybe 146 on dollar yen so far
this morning. That's the currency story
3 hours away from the open and impound
on the equity side of things with your
morning movers. Here's Danny with more.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. some real deals coming into
this market. One that was announced was
Nebius. This is a AI infrastructure
provider making a deal with Microsoft
providing them with some $19 billion
worth of infrastructure. This is
remarkable for them. You can see just
the share price reaction up 50%. It's
listed in the US but it's Amsterdam
based. It used to be Russia based and it
was initially sanctioned in 2022. The
company since has sold off its Russia
assets. So what a turnaround for this
company. The other big deal to work
through for this morning is
Anglo-American buying tech. That company
up nearly 12%. It will create a $50
billion behemoth in mining. What does
Anglo want out of this? They want their
copper resources high quality that have
been very sought after. So again, a big
rally in tech share prices this morning.
Elsewhere, Dell announcing late
yesterday that its CFO uh Yvon McIll
would be stepping down. Analysts over at
Morgan Stanley noting that this is
really odd timing. It comes just 11 days
after their earnings, 29 days before
their annual investor meeting. Not
exactly an ideal period to announce a
CFO change. Michael Dell said that the
reason was because of fatigue. The
response and share prices down 1%. John
>> Danny, I appreciate the update. More
from Danny in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, some of our top
stories. Wall Street preparing for
payrolls revisions from the BLS due at
10 a.m. Eastern time. Neora, Bank of
America, and RBC saying labor market
data could be downgraded by nearly 1
million jobs. Elsewhere, South Korea's
foreign minister is in Washington today.
The country's top diplomat looking to
secure the release of about 300 workers
detained after a DHS raid at a Hyundai
plant in Georgia on Friday. And finally,
Anglo-American shares surging in London.
The mining firm agreeing to merge with
Canada's Trek Resources, creating a
copper giant worth more than $50
billion. The combined company will be
called Anglo Tech and headquartered in
Vancouver.
>> This is fascinating on so many levels.
On one hand, both of these companies
have been fending off offers, pitches by
the likes of BHP, Pilitin and others who
want to acquire them. They would be
smaller than BHP, but they would be at
least somewhat of a rival. Do they get
the approval of their respective
governments? Because this has been a
crucial area. How much to preserve some
of the key mineral rights in order to
have national security? Do they get the
Canadian and the London and the and the
UK approvals that they need to get this
through? And does someone else step in
because I'm pleased you talked about
where they've been fending off. Anglo of
course they were pursued by BHP. Glen
core went after tech resources. I
believe these are going to be copper
pure plays. This is ultimately what
Anglo wants to be. Selling down platinum
selling off to be diamond price is
terrible at the moment by the way. We
could talk about that another time. Not
a great time to be selling that asset.
But ultimately this is still going to be
very attractive to a lot of players out
there. And I just wonder if in the next
12 months this deal is disrupted by more
than one thing
>> and it would take 12 to 18 months to get
it through. You've got the potential
rival offers. You have the potential
push back from national governments and
then you have a question of uh just in
general does the market sour further
making this deal the economics of it
somewhat challenging given the fact that
China supposedly is going to be
retrenching some of their overprouction.
But this is because the miners really
want the copper assets. When you look at
how much is being produced,
Anglo-American produced 770,000 tons of
copper last year. Tech is more than
500,000. You're talking about more than
a million tons of copper when these two
companies are able to combine. But
already the deal was going on in the in
behind the scenes because others were
trying to go after these exact assets.
So I think your point is spot on.
There's potential that this deal doesn't
even make it to the finish line.
>> It's going to be an interesting 12 to 18
months for these two companies. That's
for sure. That's the latest on Anglo and
tech resources. Turning back to the US
economy, BLS benchmark payrolls
revisions due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.
The data coming on the heels of Friday's
disappointing jobs report. Neil Data,
the head of Renmack writing the
following. The latest employment data
cements at least two rate cuts this
year. Neil joins us now for more. Neil,
welcome back to the program, sir.
Appreciate catching up with you. I've
just framed the debate on Wall Street at
the moment, and I want you to push back
against one theory that's still out
there. There are some people who believe
this step down in payrolls growth is a
bigger result of what's happened on the
supply side of the economy. Neil, what
would you point to to push back against
that this morning?
I mean, I would say look at the
unemployment rates for those at the
margins of the of the labor market. The
unemployment rate for uh for blacks has
been rising. If you look at the
unemployment rate for younger people, uh
16 to 24, that's been rising. Um, if you
even look at the unemployment rate for
those with college degrees, that's been
rising. So, unless we had a bunch of uh
black folks and those with college
degrees swarming across the border over
the last number of years, uh, you know,
to me, it's a little bit of a stretch to
say that this is primarily about about
labor supply. At the same time, I mean,
forget the BLS data for a moment. Look
at what consumers are telling you about
the job market. They're telling you that
it's getting harder to find a job. that
was released in the New York Fed survey
yesterday. That's true of the Conference
Sports survey yesterday. So for all this
talk about whether there's, you know,
the data quality is strong enough. Look
at what consumers are saying. If it was
if if it was all about labor supply, uh
the consumers that are being surveyed by
these uh you know, by the New York Fed
or the conference board, they wouldn't
be telling you that labor market
conditions are getting worse. So you
know, to me, it's I think the most
important thing, let me just make this
last point. It's very important for
people not to rationalize away a
slowdown in the job market.
>> Neil, some people would argue, not
necessarily rationalize, but would argue
that corporate profits are turning up.
you've got companies in a better
situation and as soon as they've got a
greater degree of policy certainty,
they're going to go out and they're
going to hire more and you'll see some
sort of unleashing of the labor market.
That essentially there has been a
disconnect between some of the corporate
uh returns that would have been reported
versus what consumers are telling you
and that that won't necessarily come
together in a bad way. How do you push
against that?
>> Well, I mean, financial conditions have
been loose for a while. Uh so why hasn't
it already happened? I mean I think you
know look I mean there's the uncertainty
around trade policy but then there's the
trade policy it itself and you could
make the argument that now that the
uncertainty around it has come down and
we kind of know what the uh the cost
structure is going to be now companies
have an opportunity to react uh and you
know given the fact that the effective
tariff rate is you know 10 11%.
um that would mean that they take steps
to deal with that, namely by potentially
raising prices on goods or curbing, I
think what's more likely is curving back
on on hiring uh and investment.
>> Later this morning, we're going to get
revisions to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics data that might show that
heading into April, this economy was
already in a much weaker position from
the labor market perspective than
previously uh anticipated. How much do
you think that the BLS data is
responsible for a lack of clarity around
just how weak the labor market is?
>> I mean, the data are what the data are.
I mean, I think the economy's been
slowing for for a while. Um, remember
going into the year, I mean, the
consensus did anticipate some slowdown
in the economy already. Um, but the data
have been consistent with, you know, low
rates of firing, low rates of quits, low
rates of hiring. It's a very, very sort
of sclerotic labor market. That's the
labor market that the Trump
administration inherited. And it's also
important to remember that revisions
tend to be, you know, they kind of
amplify the trends that were already in
place, right? So, the fact that the
economy has generally been slowing, it's
not surprising to see the revisions um,
you know, skewing to the downside. To
me, revisions
are more a sign of, you know, things
actually being done on the up and up,
right? I mean, that's a feature of
getting the data right, not necessarily
a bug, right? I mean, you know, where
the data is hardly ever revised, China.
Uh, so I do think that it's just, you
know, it's important to understand uh
why the data works uh the way it does.
Um, but as I say, it's it's it's very
much consistent with a lot of the, you
know, frankly, survey measures of
activity that we've been uh we've been
monitoring.
>> Neil, do you think we're on the the
precipice of a recession?
>> Yes, I think I think we are. Yes. I
mean, I' I've been saying that I think
it's, you know, the um certainly I think
the markets are uh underpriced for the
prospect of one. Um, you know, I don't
think recession probabilities have
really changed all that much from where
the markets were, um, you know, in the
immediate aftermath of of Labor
Liberation Day. Um, but at the end of
the day, it's I think for me the biggest
disconnect or difference between where I
was last year versus where I was this
year is that, you know, last year I
thought the Fed should cut 50 and they
would cut 50. So, my economic call and
what I thought the Fed should do was
kind of aligned. This year, I kind of
think they probably should do a little
bit more upfront, but I don't think that
they will uh because, you know, in their
mind, they're kind of worried about like
the phantom inflation expectation story
or, you know, the threat of potential
inflation coming from tariffs. I mean, I
think those are really secondary
considerations at this point given um
what we're seeing in the jobs market. So
to me, I think the risk is that the Fed
ultimately won't deliver um as much as
they should and that kind of reinforces
the slowing that we've already seen.
>> Neil, the word you just used, phantom,
the phantom inflation story, what makes
you pour freezing cold water over it
going into your end?
>> Well, I mean, look, I mean, survey
measures of inflation expectations look
fine. I mean, business expectations are
low. Um if you look at um the New York
Fed survey that was just released
yesterday um you know I think that's a
lot more uh that's a lot much that's
much better than the umish data that
that's basically been flat for a while
even the small business sentiment uh
data that came out look at uh uh plans
to raise selling prices or those raising
selling prices but ultimately it comes
down to first principles right I mean if
if you look at the 3mon trend in
aggregate weekly payrolls that's
approxim for nominal wages and salaries
that's running below 3%. Right? So
consumers don't have the capacity to
absorb higher prices. So to the extent
that companies try it, they're going to
find increasing resistance, which means
that consumers are going to ultimately
cut back. And then in turn, what are
companies going to do? They're going to
have to uh cut prices on the things they
try to raise prices on. So um I don't
think inflation is getting away from the
Fed, which is why I think they should be
focusing more on the growth side of the
economy at the moment.
>> Need appreciate it. Thanks for joining
us this morning. Thank you, sir. Neil
Data there of Renmack. Essentially, the
message coming from Neil and others too.
Don't worry about the inflation side of
the mandate because there are so many
more reasons to worry about the labor
side of the demand day.
>> Jim Reed over at Deutsche Bank put it
well this morning when he said, "It's as
if Thursday's data doesn't matter. It's
as if CPI really, even if it comes in
hot, can just get shrugged off and
discounted." Even that New York Fed data
that Neil was talking about crept a
little bit higher from 3.1% in terms of
consumer expectations for inflation over
the next one year to 3.2% 2%. People
saying it's not going to really be
persistent. This really is though an
anxiety for some people because some of
it hedges hinges on things that are out
of their control like oil prices, like
commodity prices. Otherwise, I mean, if
you take a look at the North Face
backpacks, they're going up. I'm just
saying if you go back to school, this is
the back to school stuff again.
>> I'm telling you, the bills were higher.
>> Expensive was it this year?
>> It was. I mean, feels personal.
>> I mean, look, a box of pencils for 350.
>> You're not letting the pencils go, are
you?
>> It wasn't that much. I know you're
rolling your eyes.
>> No, the president would say you could
just have one pencil. Why do you need
pencils?
>> Cuz they lose them all the time. It's
ridiculous. It's horrible.
>> More stories from Bremo later on this
morning about the cost of going back to
school. I'm sure a lot of you have
shared that pain over the last few
weeks. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara with
more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. France and Germany are leading
a push for increased sanctions on
Russia. According to a proposal seen by
Bloomberg, the European nations have
urged the EU to target major Russian oil
companies in its next package of
sanctions. The delegation of EU
officials are in Washington this week to
meet US counterparts and discuss
potential joint action. Meanwhile,
Rupert Murdoch and his children have
settled their longrunning family feud.
Under the new agreement, Lachlan Murdoch
becomes the sole beneficiary of the
trust overseeing F Fox Corp and News
Corp. while his siblings walk away with
more than $1 billion each. The move
ensures Fox News and the wider empire
remain conservative and under Lachland's
control for possibly decades to come.
And Lisa should be shopping at Teeu.
Timu is trying to win back US shoppers
after the tariff chaos by slashing
prices. At least two dozen of Teimu's
best-selling products have seen prices
drop by 18% on average this month, with
some items seeing cuts as deep as 60%.
Timu has stopped charging buyers import
fees and has urged merchants to cut
prices to improve traffic on its app.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yihara in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, the risk of
reinflation.
If the Fed wants to cut rates to
stimulate an economy with no excess
capacity, they're just going to create
more inflation. They're going to error
on the side of easing. That conversation
up next with Oxana Aronov of JP Morgan.
[Music]
Let's check out stocks and bonds. Close
to all-time highs at a close in
yesterday's session. Futures up by about
a tenth of 1% on the S&P. In the bond
market, the Fed meets a week tomorrow.
Decision is just around a corner and
yields are like this 349.85 on twos and
we were close to 4% at the last meeting.
That's a massive change for this Federal
Reserve
>> especially because you have not seen any
kind of increase in the long end of the
yield curve. This appears to be a
repricing of the risk of a labor market
slowdown. Has that fully been
appreciated by the rest of the market?
Maybe, maybe not. It's a sinkhole of a
debate.
>> There we go. If you put it that way,
it's one way of putting it.
>> We'll explain why a little bit later.
2-year bond yields. It's brutal. Down
for four consecutive days coming into
Tuesday. That's the bond market setup
under surveillance this morning. The
risk of reinflation.
If the Fed wants to cut rates to
stimulate an economy with no excess
capacity, they're just going to create
more inflation. They're going to error
on the side of easing. The real question
is, are they ering by easing and that's
only going to be known over the fullness
of time. Something has changed in the
supply dynamics of our labor market and
we need to kind of understand it. So
here's the latest this morning. Views
diverging on Wall Street ahead of the
Fed's latest interest rate decision next
week. Some even betting on a jumbo rate
cut. Alexander Aronov, the head of
market strategy at JP Morgan Asset
Management, raising concerns, writing,
"If the Fed thinks the economy should be
churning out over 150k a month, that's
going to guide them into cutting
short-term rates, which is stimulatory
for the higher inflation environment
we're in." Oxana has made it into the
studio, navigating sink holes of our own
through Westchester. It's good to see
you, Oxana. Good morning.
>> Literal and figurative ones.
>> Thank you for making it. Let's start
with this Federal Reserve. What are you
actually expecting? So let's make a
divide a big distinction between what
you think the Fed will do versus what
you think the Fed should do.
>> Should do. Uh there's that has been a
divide for over a year now. We did not
believe they should have been cutting
last year when they did. We saw the long
end react in in a way that I don't think
anyone anticipated. We anticipated it
because of course the long end was
reacting to realities around technical,
you know, supply of treasuries and
long-term inflation expectations. Um and
that is the reality I think that the Fed
will continue to um grapple with this
time around. Nothing is likely going to
stop them from this cut that's coming up
um this month, even a higher thanex
expected inflation print. Uh and that's
unfortunate because I think they would
probably benefit from standing still
here looking at what's actually
happening in the economy, looking at you
know variables like what's happening
with population growth for example. We
are really not sure given that you know
the border is tighter, there are
deportations, right? Population growth
is a tremendous driver to jobs and that
is changing and we're not entirely sure
how that's changing and to the comments
you quoted earlier for me. You know, if
the Fed is still being guided by the
economy needs to be turning out 150
200,000 uh 200,000 jobs a month, then
that's going to guide them in a
direction that's going to be
pro-inflationary. It might not be
150,000 jobs a month, but it's not a
contraction like what we saw in June for
the first time since December 2020. It's
not these surveys indicating that people
don't feel good about getting jobs. Why
won't that curtail inflation on its own?
Why doesn't that suggest maybe the Fed
has some room to normalize policy from
what might be considered restrictive?
Well, this is really the issue is that
the Fed keeps calling the this level of
rates mildly restrictive or restrictive
is continuing to be part of their
rhetoric. And it's hard to see where is
it restrictive because financial
conditions continue to loosen. They're
looser now than when the Fed started
their hiking cycle, you know, 3 four
years ago. And so, yes, the jobs
backdrop is moderating, but the
unemployment rate is still, you know,
4.3% versus 4.2% a year ago. Is there
some slowing? Without a doubt, that is a
natural kind of eb and flow of the
markets and the economy. I don't think
this calls for the kind of sort of fever
pitch around cut. Let's cut. And I'm not
sure what cutting is going to ultimately
do because when we cut rates, what are
we trying to do? We're trying to improve
borrowing costs for small businesses.
We're trying to improve borrowing costs
for mortgage uh borrowers. And that's
just not really been the case. case. I
mean, mortgages are still kind of stuck
in that mid6, high six level, which is
not really unlocking tremendous amount
of um activity. And frankly, even if we
give the benefit of the doubt to this
policy and say, you know what, it's
going to improve the mortgage rate, is
that really going to yield better home
affordability, what is your average
homeowner going to do? If they know
money is cheaper, they're going to raise
their home price further. We saw some of
the lowest mortgage rates over the last
decade. Bottom, you know, rock bottom
low mortgage rates and all we saw was
tremendous price appreciation. Are you
saying that rate cuts here, even if
there is some degree of weakness in the
labor market, would only inflate asset
prices, create long-term inflation, and
do nothing essentially for any of those
underlying issues.
>> Unfortunately, I think there's a very
significant risk of that happening. it
is going to um probably stoke asset
price appreciation which is already at a
very rich level. You know we know that
credit and I've talked about this before
here credit has never been more
expensive or credit has been more
expensive um you know 1% of the time
historically 99% of readings in credit
over the last number of decades um have
been less expensive than where it is
today. So price appreciation, although I
will say if the Fed is aggressive around
price cuts, that may actually spook
markets where markets may be like, well,
what do they know that we don't know?
And that can actually spark a selloff in
um in credit or in risk assets, which
look, risk assets are definitely pushing
some boundaries there. and a correction
is not outside the realm of reasonable
reasonleness or possibility. But I just
don't think the Fed has enough here to
really be as aggressive as everyone is
asking it to be. Um, however, the Fed
has done no favors to itself right over
the last 18 months or so. They um looked
political whether they wanted to or not
when they for the first time ever
changed policy within a couple of months
of the of an election last year. um and
that made them look politicized whether
they were or were not. And so that's why
I think the market generally sanguin um
around this question of you know Fed
independence um we we're seeing markets
kind of look through that. Yes, maybe
it's a red flag, but until we see, you
know, the White House actually set
monetary policy, um I think the markets
are going to continue looking through
that.
>> In the 30 seconds we have left, how
would you deploy capital? Where would
you like to put it in fixed income at
the moment? So this is the most
important question because everyone kind
of sits here and talks about what's
going to happen in the econ with the
economy what's going to happen with fat
policy but at the end of the day um
fixed income specifically which is the
world I live in is meant to be a
balanced in your portfolio and the
problem that investors continue to have
whether they realize it or not is that
bonds and stocks have become highly
positively correlated y and so what I
think investors need to do is look at
their fixed income portfolio and think
about okay well rates fell maybe I did
Well, but when race road arose, did I do
just as well just as well or was my
portfolio positive? And I think they
need to really think about that kind of
diversification with investors that can
generate returns regardless of whether
the environment is a good one for bonds
or not.
>> Oxana, perfect timing. It's good to see
you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you, Oxana Aronov there of JP
Morgan asset management. Up next on the
program, Ed Yardeni of Yardeni Research,
Henry Array of Vader Partners, Amy Woo
Silverman of RBC, and Amanda Linham of
Black Rockck. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance. Up next,
>> since the equity market retook its
pre-liberation day high, I've been a
little more concerned. The stock market
valuation maybe are topping out here.
>> As long as forward earnings estimates
continue to climb, we think the market
is well supported. You stick with
secular growth, add some cyclical
exposure.
>> Valuation alone is something that
doesn't end bull markets.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramitz, and an
Marie Hordern.
>> At or near record highs coming into
Tuesday, live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning from
our audience worldwide. The second hour
of Bloomberg surveillance starts right
now and your scores look like this on
the S&P 500. Higher by about a tenth of
1%. Likewise on the NASDAQ up by 0.2 in
the bond market. The setup a week out
from a Federal Reserve meeting a 2-year
sub 350 349.85
yields lower over the previous four
sessions. Higher this morning by just a
basis point. As for this morning, the
main event 10 a.m. Eastern time.
Benchmark revisions from the BLS. Just
how much lower? How much lower were
payrolls over the previous 12 months?
>> Is the Fed behind the curve? And just
how behind the curve are they given the
fact that we might have seen a lot
slower momentum heading into April from
this data that is backward backwardly
revised. You take a look at some of
those yields and some of the rate cut
bets. Are they cutting for the right
reason? Are they cutting for the wrong
reason? And we've heard that debate
viciously hashed out on this show so far
this morning. And that is the reason why
I find this moment so fascinating.
behind the curve or as the White House
would say too late. And this is where
it's going to get very complicated for
them. How do they message that actually
the economy is doing well? If the Fed is
cutting because the labor market is so
weak.
>> Think about the last 60 minutes on this
program. We've had Neil Data of Renmack
tell you that we're on the precipice of
recession. Oxana Aronov of JP Morgan
Asset Management really alluding to the
idea, the argument that maybe this Fed's
about to juice this market too much.
These are rate cuts that perhaps we
don't need. To your point, Bremo, that's
the setup going into this meeting a week
out.
>> Yeah. And Max Kentner is saying, you got
to lean into the bull market because if
there is asset price inflation, I'm
going to be there. So, this is
essentially where we're at at a time
where people cannot understand a highly
complicated uh economy and a market that
is increasingly removed from said
economy. You just wonder, do the
profitability outlooks for some of these
companies really improve their hiring
plans or are they looking to have an a
business model that just includes fewer
people? Is this a secular shift that is
getting represented in the numbers and
the sentiment of consumers? To Oxana's
point though, something that this
administration wants to see is lower
rates. They want to see lower mortgage
rates. But what did we see last year?
The Fed cut and it didn't change
mortgage rates. Actually, they went up.
There is a disconnect at the moment
between the labor market data weaker and
corporate profits and the outlook for
those profits a whole lot better. Does
that disconnect need to reconcile to
explain the price action of the moment?
Now, some people are making the case
that maybe it doesn't. Now, you
mentioned Max. Max is basically saying
it's not a big deal that you shouldn't
anchor your view on the stock market
around developments in the labor market.
That's uncomfortable for a lot of
people, but that's the view that
ultimately has proved correct over the
last month based on the price action
alone. I'll give you an example. Big
tech, they've cut hundreds of thousands
of jobs over the past couple of years.
Remember the year of efficiency for Meta
and the stock rallied tremendously. The
more they cut, the better their stock
does because essentially they're saying
we can do more with less. At what point
is that representative of the
profitability that comes in the heels of
technology that at the moment is
superseding the need for quite as many
people. I understand this is just one
piece of the story and there could be
weakness elsewhere. It is a complicated
moment and putting it together into
coherent story as you can see everyone's
struggling with not so easy.
>> Alltime highs on the S&P.
>> There you go.
>> Apparently it's that simple.
>> Yeah, there you go.
>> Equity futures positive again this
morning by close to a tenth of 1%. If
you are just joining us, welcome to the
program. Here's your next 60 minutes. Ed
Yardeni of Yardeni Research joins us
with rate cut bets rising. Henry Trees
of VA partners as South Korean officials
look to secure the release of detained
Hyundai workers and Amanda Lam of Black
Rockck with Treasury yields falling
ahead of key inflation reports. We begin
this hour with stocks nearing a new
record as investors weigh the Fed's next
move. Ed Yardeni of Yardi Research
writing this. Our concern is that
lowering interest rates will lead to
financial instability. Solid
productivity growth in real GDP implies
that current interest rates are just
fine where they are. Ed joins us now for
more. Ed, good morning, sir. Is this a
market then that you want to lean into?
>> Absolutely. It's a bull market. It's
been actually a bull market since the
last recession. The last recession was a
twomonth recession back in 2020.
Remember with with the lockdowns we made
a low on March 23rd, 2020. And that's
been uh the market's up about basically
100% since then. And almost all of that
uh can be accounted for by by earnings.
I mean, once once the market recovered
from the pandemic sell-off and we went
back to where we were in February of uh
2020, uh we're up 100% since then and
forward earnings are up 100% since then.
So, it's been actually an earningsled
market with a multiple of around 22.
>> At your line, our concern is that
lowering interest rates will lead to
financial instability. What might that
instability look like then? Well, we're
just talking about a plain old vanilla
maltup. Um, you know, I mean, 2022 is a
very elevated valuation multiple. Uh, it
can be justified by the fact that the
economy is growing. uh it can be
justified by the fact that uh the uh
Magnificent 7 account for uh 30% of the
S&P 500 and they have a multiple of uh
what about 30 right now and the rest of
the market's got a valuation multiple of
19. Not cheap, but uh you know that's
it's the impressive 493. Uh they're
doing pretty well.
just by comparison to the Magnificent 7,
they look a little punky. But all in
all, I think we're still looking at a at
a bull market that continues to maybe
6,600, 6,800 by the end of the year and
7,700 or higher uh by the end of next
year.
>> Ed, a meltup doesn't sound so scary. In
fact, Max Ker would absolutely embrace
it and say, "Let's go." Just like you
said, you actually see uh bigger
returns. Where is the pain then? Where
is the negative consequence if the Fed
doesn't need to cut? Does it come with
higher long end yields that we just
aren't seeing yet?
>> Well, I think the uh as I as I said in
the quote you picked up, uh we don't
really need a a rate cut here. And if we
get a rate cut, uh that increases the
odds of a meltup. So, whatever targets I
gave you, we we'd surpass them uh sooner
rather than later. uh and then the
valuation multiples suddenly at 25. 25
is where the tech bubble burst back in
uh the late 1990s early 2000. Uh we we
don't want to go there. And um I I think
the what really is important to
understand here is that cut cutting
interest rates isn't necessarily all
that liquidity is not necessarily going
to go and create more jobs. I think we,
you know, we've lost 1.5 million people
in the labor force who are foreign born
uh since uh I think the since March of
of this year. Uh so obviously the
shutting off of the border and uh the
elevated deportations have reduced the
supply of labor and that's not going to
change if the Fed cuts uh interest
rates. And by the way, uh the job uh
openings have been declining in areas
that uh benefited uh from the inflow of
migrants and that was state and local
government uh job openings really have
declined sharply because we don't need
as many teachers. We don't need as much
as many social workers and that's where
some of the job losses have been. And
that's not going to change just because
the Fed lowers interest rates. But we
could get more inflation out of it. we
in terms of consumer prices and we could
get higher asset prices which is fine
unless it's a meltup.
>> So Ed, what do you think when you take a
look at some of these consumer surveys
that show that individuals in the United
States think that it's the hardest time
to get a new job going back to at least
2013? This idea that you do see a real
sense of deterioration in in consumer
confidence about the labor market. Does
that raise alarm bells or are you saying
that this is a structural sea change
that cannot be affected by monetary
policy?
>> Well, if we uh kind of drill down and
look at the labor market report that uh
came out uh uh recently, what we know is
that u where it is very hard to getting
harder and harder to get a job is for
teenagers and uh uh would be workers who
are 20 to 24 mostly people who are
coming out of college. Uh so entry-level
jobs u have become more difficult to
obtain. Some of that may be related to
productivity. Uh some of those younger
people you know you have you know a lot
of people cross the border and uh they
weren't old people they were mostly
young people and they're going back. So
I think uh that that's that's an issue.
Uh but uh for anybody above uh 25, not
anybody, but uh for people in that
category above 25, the unemployment
rates are below 4%, they've been there
for a while. That hasn't really changed.
So it's a very bifurcated labor market.
>> Ed, when it comes to what's going on in
the stock market though, you have all
these tech companies spending a ton on
capbacks. That doesn't mean when it
comes to these data centers that it's
actually creating new jobs. So can we
see a meltup in the stock market, but a
recession in the real economy?
Well, I think the economy is uh evolving
very rapidly into uh something different
than we're used to. I think we're still
kind of looking at the the old fashion
business cycle model where manufacturing
of goods is uh is important. um uh
that's less less the case and everybody
re recognizes the services have become
bigger but I think people still don't
haven't uh wrapped their arms around the
fact that we've been in a digital
revolution that actually started in the
mid 1960s with the IBM mainframes and
here we are now with artificial
intelligence and this revolution is all
about processing more and more data
faster and faster uh more cheaply and
that's what AI is doing that's what the
cloud is doing and that's uh that that's
a whole new economy uh and it has uh
tremendous implications uh for for the
future. I I've called this the roaring
uh 2020s and I I think it could go into
the roaring 2030s uh because of this
digital revolution that we're in that
seems to be actually
accelerating.
>> So Edgy went there. I'm worried about
the 30s. So you help me. This is the
situation at the moment. A lot of the
gains are concentrated in asset price
appreciation. The labor market's
weakening. You've got the far-left
waiting in the wings making a pitch to
this country that they should be running
things. And if we see gains in the stock
market, but not gains in the real
economy, I think capital gains is going
to be a big story in the next 10 years.
Ed, why should we be optimistic and
constructive for capital markets in the
2030s given the dynamics that are
starting to build already?
>> Uh, in a word, productivity. Um so for
example today we may very well see that
the Bureau of Labor Statistics lowers uh
the level of uh employment over the past
year or so uh at least on a re on a
preliminary basis by 450,000 to 750,000
jobs and uh everybody's going to
interpret that as being a sign that
labor market was actually weaker than we
we thought. Um actually I think it
indicates that productivity is
increasing. So what do we what we sort
of lose on the uh the headcount side we
gain on the productivity side and if
that's the case then real wages go up.
So uh all the workers that are out there
are going to on balance on average get
an increase in their inflation adjusted
wages and that's where the growth in
real incomes are going to be and that's
where the growth in consumption is going
to be fueled. And then we've got capital
spending uh particularly in technology
accounts for over 50%. Technology
accounts for over 50% of capital
spending now is that's only going to go
higher. And so again I think the
economy's nature has changed pretty
dramatically. I think the stock market
has figured it out. Uh and I think it's
all good if I'm right about the
productivity story.
>> Ed, I hope you're right. Only you could
get us talking about the 2030s. Ed
Yandenni if you had any research. Ed,
thank you sir. on a bullish bullish view
not just for now but well into the
future.
>> Yeah, what he's talking about is
actually fascinating. This idea of
companies being able to do more with
less as being a feature not a bug and
actually being the fuel to get the
United States into another decade of
double digit gains on the S&P 700 is
sort of the low ball base case for him
for the end of 2026. So this is where
we're at right now.
>> What do you make of the bull case going
into year end? Never mind the 2030s. the
bull case into year end that we're
underestimating just how hard this
Federal Reserve is going to run things.
>> That to me comes with the potential risk
of what he said which is getting there
too quickly and then getting some steam
blown out from it. The idea that it's
asset price inflation without any
benefit to the underlying economy. There
are a number of people who would
disagree with that but there are a
number of people who do agree with that.
Max Ker might be one of them but you
might as well ride it while it's hot.
And that I think is what a lot of people
are saying.
>> The price of gold speaks for itself. up
39% so far year to date up 39%. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara. Hey, Yahira.
>> Hi, John. The Bureau of Labor Statistics
will release revised job figures at
10:00 a.m. Eastern. The data is expected
to show US companies hired far fewer
workers than initially reported. The
estimate in Bloomberg's survey calls for
a downward revision of 700,000 jobs as
many economists expect the labor market
to show further weakness.
Meanwhile, House Democrats released an
alleged birthday note from President
Donald Trump to convicted sex offender,
the late Jeffrey Epstein. The note
includes the signoff may every day be
another wonderful secret, complete with
the sketched outline of a woman woman's
body, which you can see behind me. Trump
has denied composing the message or that
the note existed.
And in M&A news, Anglo American has
agreed to acquire Canada's tech
resources in a zero premium transaction,
marking one of the biggest ever mining
deals. The deal gives Anglo access to
tech's much coveted portfolio of copper
mines and if approved by regulators, the
acquisition is expected to be completed
in 12 to 18 months. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yahara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, rising tensions with South
Korea. Many of those individuals that
were detained through that operation in
Georgia. Um we are following the law.
They are going to be deported. They are
a few of those had criminal activity
beyond just being here past final
removal orders and they will face the
consequences for that.
>> That conversation up next with Henrietta
Trace of FA Partners live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Remember when this used to be the
biggest event on the planet? Like there
was nothing else. Apple was coming out
with a new phone. 1 p.m. Eastern time.
It's the first time we've mentioned it
all morning.
>> Yeah, the expectations are pretty low.
Performance of the stock has been fairly
low. It typically sells off after the
event. They might announce some small
thinner phone that could potentially be
foldable at some point in the in the
future, but unless they announce sort of
a self-driving aircraft, it's hard to
see what's going to get people
particularly excited.
>> That big unveiling that everyone's
excited for comes a little bit later on
this afternoon surveillance this
morning. I'm not rising tensions with
South Korea.
>> People that are in this country
illegally need to know right now today
that they have an opportunity to go home
before they are detained. So many of
those individuals that were detained
through that operation in Georgia, um we
are following the law. They are going to
be deported. They are a few of those had
criminal activity beyond just being here
past final removal orders and they will
face the consequences for that.
>> So here's the latest this morning. South
Korea's top diplomat arriving in
Washington today. The foreign minister
looking to secure the release of about
300 detained workers after an
immigration raid at a Hyundai EV plant.
Blindberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more. Tyler, welcome back to the
program. Have we got some clarity on
just what rules were broken here?
>> John, at this point, it's unclear. A
person familiar does tell Bloomberg News
that the majority of these workers were
skilled equipment engineers and that
most of them did did have visas, but at
this point, it's not total totally clear
exactly which visas they did have. And
the administration has said at this
point that this came after a monthslong
investigation into the plant and that it
appears that they were breaking labor
laws in the US. But really, we know that
this is part of this broader immigration
push from the White House to curb uh
what they say is illegal immigration.
We're still waiting on how this is all
going to shake out. You mentioned that
the foreign minister is going to be here
to try to secure a deal. And Bloomberg
News is reporting that at this point
they're planning to send a chartered
plane from South Korea to Atlanta which
would bring home those 300 detained
workers.
>> Tana with the latest. Thank you. I want
to bring in Henrietta's Vader partners.
Henrietta, I just want to stick on these
pictures and I want your perspective on
how these kind of pictures play out in
places like South Korea when their
government is getting together and
negotiating with Washington to come up
with $350 billion investment deals. What
do the people of these countries think?
>> Well, I think the first question that it
always needs to be is what are the
political ramifications of continuing to
side with the United States when
they're, you know, trying to forcefully
kick out 300 skilled laborers. And
that's what it is. So, South Korea is
doing exactly what President Trump has
asked for, investing $350 billion in the
United States across these Hyundai
plants, electric vehicle plants, etc.
And then you're simultaneously kicking
out the very employees that they need to
run said plant. So, it's a thumb in the
eye across the board. I think it really
gets to the heart of the matter that
these trade deals the president has
announced with various nations,
including the EU, Japan, South Korea,
none of them have legal text. None of
them are finalized. And pending the
Supreme Court ruling on AIPA, I
anticipate that most of them are going
to get upended in the next couple of
weeks anyway. So, basically, we do not
have a deal with South Korea. We do not
have a free trade agreement. Tariffs are
exponentially higher than they were when
Trump took office. and we had a
congressionally passed 0% tariff rate
unlike 95% of goods coming in from South
Korea before this administration took
office. So I don't see any material good
news here.
>> And local press in South Korea saying at
the same time the US and South Korea are
holding working level talks when it
comes to the trade deal. But how can
what's happening at Hyundai and this
plant impact those negotiations?
Well, I think the issue as we're seeing
in countries across the world now is
that their political leaders cannot
enter into binding agreements with the
United States for their own domestic
political purposes. So, it really just
is that, you know, thumb in the eye
situation that creates an impossible
inractical path for the United States
and these nations to come to an
agreement. And their political leaders
can't have it just like Trump can't have
it. Does it mean that potentially the
United States won't get this $350
billion dollars worth of investments
from Seoul?
>> Absolutely. No question.
>> So where does this leave the trading
relationship?
>> I don't think that there is a trade deal
and we've already undermined the free
trade agreement and overridden it with
the AIPA tariffs. So we have these tacit
um commitments on things like sectoral
tariffs for 232s on pharma on semis. A
critical one for South Korea is one that
hasn't emerged yet. That's the lumber
and timber tariffs, which President
Trump tweeted about being the furniture
tariffs a few weeks back. Those are
directly targeted at South Korea and
Canada. So, I don't see an opportunity
for this trade deal that they have that
allows South Korea to commit to the
Saipa rate holding water. Um, and
certainly that $350 billion in
investment materializing when South
Korea can't put its own skilled laborers
that the United States does not have in
plants in purple states like Georgia.
It's it's unsustainable. Penny, does
this Georgia situation tell us anything
about what a bigger priority is for
Trump domestically? Whether it's
limiting immigration or whether it's
getting these trade deals done?
>> Yeah, I think that's fair. Immigration
is one where we can say, you know,
objectively the president has succeeded
beyond all of his measures. Even so much
to say that he did it too fast and now
they're targeting these um areas where
it's job creation and hitting the trade
agenda and the investment that he said
he wants to see in the United States.
But as I mentioned at the outset, these
trade deals that we have reached with
the EU, with Japan, with South Korea,
Vietnam, the Philippines, Indonesia,
they do not exist in legal text. And the
fundamental underpinning is the 15 to
60% AIPA tariffs that are in effect
across these deals that the president
indicates he got these nations to agree
with. When the Supreme Court rules that
they're unconstitutional, which is
something that is entirely possible,
we'll get an announcement about when
they're going to take up the case. as
early as today or tomorrow. Uh then you
really have the question of what matters
more, the immigration stuff that we've
delivered on or the trade deals that
don't exist.
>> And one thing that we were talking about
yesterday is it seems like these goals
are in conflict. The idea of limiting
immigration while also uh getting
certain investments and getting getting
certain trade deals across. I'm
wondering if this really speaks to how
this is being perceived politically,
whether trade deals are complicated
politically, but limiting immigration
caters to a certain base of President
Trump that he will continue to double
down on and will come at the behest of
whatever trade deals might get through.
I'm just speculating. I'm wondering if
that's a message or if this is a little
bit messier uh than it's than being
stated.
>> I would say let's go straight to the
numbers because I I totally agree with
you. You know, where is the American
public on this? The stock market is
reacting in one way to all these
tariffs, but the American public, and
I've said this to y'all for a while, and
the polling continues to support it.
This is a 6040 issue, a 7030 issue that
the president is on the wrong side of.
77% of Americans believe inflation is
the number one problem. As an overall
scale of what their most important issue
is, all voters, Democrats, Republicans,
and independents, predominantly
independents, believe that inflation and
high prices are the problem. And they
think the president has gone too far.
That's the exact economist yuggov
wording of their polling on tariffs and
that's a 54% number as of the latest
data. So American voters are incredibly
aware of the fact that tariffs are
taxes, prices are higher at grocery
stores and at big box retailers and they
do not like it and that's why you're
seeing the president's approval ratings
so far underwater. you can get
distracted with some of the other
components and of course there's a
healthy uh population of Americans who
very much support the president's
immigration agenda but the economy wins
all day every day and inflation and
prices continue to be their number one
issue and they don't like the tariffs
appreciate your take as always Henry tra
there in Vader partners speaking of
inflation tomorrow PPI the day after CPI
inflation a big focus for us this week
next on the program Amy Woo Silverman of
RBC and why the VIX may not be following
the seasonal playbook.
[Music]
Waking up Tuesday morning looking at
record highs on the NASDAQ 100 once
again very very close to them at the
close yesterday on the S&P 500 within
just 0.1% from another record this
morning. Just about unchanged on the S&P
just about positive on the Nasdaq 100.
What a change in this bond market. When
the Fed last met, the 2-year yield was
pushing 4%. On the day of that meeting,
in the mid 390s this morning, 350 35088
yields up by, let's call it two basis
points, but a week out from a Federal
Reserve meeting. And we've seen a major
move lower in bond yields.
>> Investors pricing in a Fed that has to
cut, will cut, and might be able to cut
even more next year as a result of a
labor market that's weakening. The big
debate is is this a an indictment of the
risk asset rally that we've seen or does
this just support it because ultimately
any rate cuts whether they're warranted
or not will only continue to fuel some
of the positive sentiment around risk
assets. said a few times the good news
coming from the long end of the curve
the fact that the 30-year yield has
actually moved lower last week
threatening 5% all the fear about that
this morning let's say 470 on a 30-year
bond yield I think the lowest since late
April early May
>> this is BLS revisions week it is not CPI
week and that tells you everything you
need to know people are not focused on
inflation that's going to be coming out
on Thursday and what that does to any
kind of Fed rate decision they are
focused on just how weak the labor
market is and how much more that could
justify later And that tells you where
the pulse has gone.
>> Also makes you wonder just how balanced
the wrists are going into Thursday. We
can get to that in a moment. 2 hours
away from the opening bell. The opening
bell at 9:30 Eastern time. It's 7:30
here in New York. Let's get you some
morning movers with Danny Burger. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. It's the big deal of the
morning. It is Anglo-American buying
tech resources. The Canadian company
listed here in the US. Shares rallying
17%. That's exactly bang on the premium
that Anglo will be paying for. And
they're paying, let's not get it mixed
up, they're paying for their copper
assets. Assets which have been very
soughtafter by other mining companies.
This creates a behemoth, one of the
biggest mining deals, about $50 billion
between the two. Elsewhere, we are
looking at Coree shares moving higher in
the pre-market just under 6%. They have
announced they're launching something
called coreweave ventures. It's
essentially a platform for entrepreneurs
trying to build AI platforms and AI
businesses. is they'll provide some of
the resources I guess the thinking and
the benefit for core as they get access
to some of that AI technology. You talk
about that and share prices go higher.
Moving lower this morning are shares of
Fox Corp. It is the succession drama
finally settled. It is a Fox that will
now be under the control of Lachland
that has been decided with the Murdoch
Empire. Meanwhile, the other kids, the
other Murdoch kids will be selling their
shares. So, it's a dilutive event, the
three of them. And maybe that's why
you're seeing shares move lower off the
back of that. Down 4.7%. John
>> Danny, thanks for the update. Appreciate
it. More from Danny in the next hour on
our radar this morning. We're looking
for some big revisions to BLS employment
data at 10 a.m. Eastern time. The
estimate in Bloomberg survey calling for
a downward revision of about 700,000
jobs. Elsewhere, the Senate Banking
Committee voting tomorrow on the
confirmation of President Trump's Fed
pick Steven Myron. the move likely
setting up Myron to be confirmed on the
board of governors before next week's
FOMC meeting.
>> Does this matter from any kind of
tangible uh Fed policy perspective or
does this just matter on a visuals
perspective? What everyone wants to see
Steven Meyer walking in and the reaction
of coolness from everybody else? Is
there some kind of you know Mean Girls
drama? Is this just ultimately optics or
is this actually substantively going to
change any kind of perception or policym
on the Federal Reserve?
>> Well, he gets a vote, right? So, he's
going to get a vote when he steps in and
he's going to clearly get through the
Senate Banking Committee and then he
didn't lose a single Republican vote in
March when he was ascended to the CE.
So, he's likely going to get uh all the
votes he needs when it comes to the
Senate. The question I have is what are
members of the FOMC, maybe these mean
girls who can't sit with us, think about
him basically keeping one foot in the
White House taking this leap of absence
at his current position at his job under
President Trump.
>> Is he going to push for 50 basis points
if he sat around that table? And will he
have some company in people like
Governor Waller? Governor Waller
open-minded about that going into the
recent employment report and the recent
employment report wasn't good at all.
Yeah, if you end up with uh Mickey
Bowman and Chris Waller actually
supporting the idea of a 50 basis point
rate cut. Remember they desented at the
last meeting, how much does that change
the conversation in a material way? I
want to just set the record straight. I
actually don't think the Fed is full of
mean girls. I think it's going to be
kill them with niceness. They might talk
about it behind people's backs, but I
don't get the sense that it really is
that kind of
>> they're a nice bunch of people.
>> I think that is I don't I don't think
it's going to have that kind of vibe of
don't sit with us. They might think
that, but I don't that just my
>> struggling to think of someone on that
committee that would be mean. I I can't
think of anyone to be honest with you.
>> I just I don't I don't see it. No, it
just doesn't seem to be it.
>> No.
>> Okay. Glad we settled that.
>> Beth Hammock sort of throwing things.
She's a hawk. I I don't see that either.
>> That's not their vibe.
>> All right. Let's move on
>> at all. All right. Apple holding it
annual product launch event today. The
highlight expected to be the iPhone 17
Air. The phone getting criticism over it
shorter battery life and single rear
camera. Do you want a phone that folds?
I'm serious. Is that really important to
you?
>> There's a new trend. Flip phones, no
keys are coming back in style because
there's college students, there's
children in school and high school that
are saying they don't want to keep doom
scrolling and feeling the need that they
always need to be online. So, what's old
is apparently very cool again.
>> Have you seen the Google commercial? I
think the language in that is great.
I'll share the quote with you. If you
buy a new phone because of a feature
that's coming soon, but it's been coming
soon for a full year, you could change
your definition of soon or you could
change your phone. I think that's such a
great message.
>> If you want Mean Girls, go to Google and
Apple evidently not the Federal Reserve
because that's some pretty uh some
serious boxing gloves. The boxing gloves
are coming out and I think that that is
exactly the point which is Apple has
competition in a real way for the first
time in a long time. Can they really
turn the tide back to themselves? The
bar is so high that the expectations are
very low heading into this meeting.
>> We'll come back to this story in about
40 minutes time. We'll catch up with
Walt Pyise on what you can expect later
on this afternoon in Catino, California.
Let's turn back to financial markets.
Stocks trading near record highs. Amy
Woo Silverman of RBC saying the
following. While seasonally the market
gets the September scaries, it is
important to note that since the summer,
VIX has not been following the seasonal
playbook. Amy joins us now for more.
Amy, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> We're trying to make this very simple.
So, typically when you're really worried
about lots and lots of things, you see a
VIX above 15. I think a lot of people
are still worried about lots and lots of
things and a VIX at 15. Can you help
explain that for people? Why is that
happening?
>> This this is, I would say, one of the
most common questions I get. So, I've
had to bring back my paddling duck
analogy. Just it looks calm and smooth
on the surface, right? But those little
duck feet continue to furiously paddle
underneath. And that compression we see
is not evident until you dig deeper. So
when you look at single stock option
prices, when you look at rotations,
there are multi-standard deviation
moves, but you don't see that in the
headline VIX. And beyond that, you know,
everyone keeps talking about the
September scaries. They talk about
August being the inflection point for
both VIX and spot returns, but we
haven't seen that play out this year.
And it's not necessarily the case you're
going to get it for September and
October either. Do you think people have
been conditioned by some of the recent
outperformance that we've seen that risk
goes to both the downside and the upside
and that maybe there's just this
ultimate sticky feeling that we've
missed out, we keep missing out, we
can't keep missing out. I
>> I think that is 100% it. So I think of
kind of postco as its own volatility
regime. And the reason is when you look
at the distribution of tales, so your
left tails being the scary bad things
that can happen in the market and the
right tails being that chase up. Most
investors I talked to, they've been hurt
by the knife up more than the knife
down. And so, you know, you think about
the anchoring to the most recent risk.
It was April 2nd where they got caught
off sides on the way up. They were
protected on the way down, John. They
were caught off sides on the way up. I
think that's why the right tail is still
in everyone's mind. Do you see more
volatility getting priced into specific
sectors to specific company stocks? The
idea of it's too difficult to sort of
put the whole market together and make
some sort of cohesive bet based on how
much macro uncertainty there is. So I'm
going to bet just on this sector. I'm
going to bet on this stock. Do you see
that in a more significant way? We
really do. And so part of the problem is
if you take something like VIX which is
just S&P you know one month implied that
kind of gets canceled out because if you
see more on one sector and less on the
other you're not seeing that again on
that duck floating on the surface but it
is happening. One thing I'll say that's
interesting is despite the concentration
risk in the market you're not overly
seeing it in mag 7. So you see it when
we kind of look through all the sectors
we compare those pairs of volatility.
You may see it in healthcare. You may
see it in some of the sectors that are
more tariff related. You don't see it
yet in the heavily concentrated MAG7.
And we know how the meat is made, right,
Lisa? It's made by MAG7 and that's not
showing up in S&P.
>> This is one reason why a lot of people,
in particular, John's been picking up on
the cyclical tilts, the recent rally,
the idea that small caps have been
benefiting from this idea that the labor
market's weak. Somehow that's positive
for small caps. But that actually does
mean the beginning of another cycle
because of rate cuts. And it sort of is
this conundrum baked in an enigma, baked
in a riddle. And I wonder if you're
seeing people taking the other side of
that, the idea that cyclicals don't have
that much more room to run if the labor
market truly is as weak as maybe some
people are suggesting.
>> So I I will tell you that the one thing
we have seen and we use IWM and S&P
basically as proxies. So IWM is your
small cap to midcap proxy versus S&P
you're more magentrated. That spread is
really wide. It is telling you that
people are trying to place these bets
through the options market. I will tell
you that I rem I I kind of remain more,
you know, Boy Who Cried Small Cap. I'm a
little bit skeptical because I've seen
this movie a lot of times. It's had fits
and starts, but it doesn't go all the
way through. And one of the reasons is
you don't need to participate in a rally
in small and midcap the way you do if
S&P knifes up because of MAG 7. There is
a concentration risk. We call it
benchmark FOMO, but it exists because
Nvidia is so much of S&P and you don't
have that in IWM. So again, that right
tail going back to that knife up risk,
it doesn't exist as much in positioning
dynamics.
>> Can we pick up on the knife up risk?
What happened the meltup basically after
liberation day? Are investors pricing in
taco enough?
>> I don't think so. It's kind of
interesting. So I think that there was
kind of this tantrum when Trump was
discussing the idea of firing PAL, but
then you essentially saw it less and
less when we start talking about Cook.
You know, I feel like the market kind of
priced a certain level. The thing I
think is interesting in terms of the
taco is what we learned is basically
there are guard rails to the market. I
think there was this debate in April of
whether or not there were there were I
think it was multi-standards below what
the market had expected but it does
exist and I don't see why that wouldn't
be true on a carry forward basis when it
comes to Fed independence or BLS or any
number of things.
>> We spent hours every single morning
talking about the Trump put and whether
it existed anymore in the equity market.
that moment you had on Air Force One
with the president asking about equity
markets and how angry he got over the
issue.
>> Yeah. He said it was a stupid question
because he doesn't want anything to go
down, but said that the economy at some
point may need medicine. I think what we
learned is that Trump really does have a
tremendous amount of patience and can
really bite his tongue while the market
is going down, but at the end of the
day, there is a line in the sand for
him.
>> Amy, any recommendations going into year
end? What's the conviction call for you
and a team? I think one thing that sets
up as reasonable and attractive, again,
if you think we're not necessarily going
to get the playbook and we're worried
about that knife up, it's just
short-term NASDAQ or S&P calls because
they're relatively inexpensive right
now. And again, there's much more
benchmark FOMO going up than there has
been down since Liberation Day.
>> Interesting. Amy, enjoyed this. It's
good to see you as always. Thank you.
Amy was Silverman there of RBC Capital.
If you're just joining us, welcome to
the program. Equity futures just about
positive on the S&P 500. Let's get you
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Supreme Court Chief Justice
John Roberts let President Donald Trump
temporarily oust a Democratic member of
the FTC. The decision signals that the
court is likely to back Trump's bid to
assert control over the independent
agency. Roberts set a deadline for next
week for Rebecca Kelly Slaughter's
lawyers to respond. Meanwhile, a former
Meta employee is suing the social media
giant alleging WhatsApp contained quote
systemic cyber security failures. The
former head of security alleged Meta
retaliated against him after he notified
leaders including CEO Mark Zuckerberg of
the security issues. Meta is disputing
the allegations. And Monday night
football kicked off last night. The
Minnesota Vikings defeated the Chicago
Bears 27 to 24 to wrap up week one of
the NFL season. Vikings quarterback JJ
McCarthy accounted for three touchdowns
in his long awaited debut and helped
lead his team to a fourth quarter
comeback victory. That's your Bloomberg
Green. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, inflation in focus.
If you get a really bad print on
inflation this week, then I think the
long end could easily easily go up. And
if the labor market continues to weaken
and inflation isn't quite as bad, the
entire curve could fall just the long
end less than the front end.
>> A conversation up next with Amanda Liner
of Black Rockck live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Stocks are positive by a tenth of 1% on
the S&P, higher by 0.2 on the NASDAQ.
The main event in the commodity market,
gold 3652
up for 10 of the last 11 sessions. I
think all-time highs are this morning up
another 0.5.
>> Is this the fly in the ointment for the
story that maybe you could have a Fed
cutting for the wrong re or for the
right reasons and have a market that
just keeps chugging along? Is this a
sign that people are getting worried
about what that could do to the dollar
and the long ending of the yield curve
as people continue to go into gold for a
haven trade?
>> Keep going back to that bull case just
how hot is this Fed willing to run
things. This has been a story all year.
All year. And also I think another leg
to this if you really want to get into
the doomsday story type stuff. If you
believe the Fed's going to come in and
be taken over as an institution, it's a
fringe view, but if you believe that
they come in and they're just going to
buy loads and loads of bonds and you're
going to get fiscal dominance come
through, then the way to play it is to
short the dollar against what? Against
what? The euro, the yen, I don't know
about that. Sterling, no thank you.
You're going to play it through precious
metals and gold. And this is the actual
secular story you're seeing play out
with central banks around the world. In
particular, China, which is reportedly
buying significant greater significantly
greater amount of gold than they are
reporting at any given time. So, a huge
source of demand as people look to
diversify away from the dollar.
>> We've seen some of that, some fringe
views, some contrarian bets. And look,
whatever you think is the reason gold is
going up, gold is going up. And the
chart's been up and to the right for a
number of years. And Savanis this
morning, inflation in focus.
If you get a really bad print on
inflation this week, then I think the
long end could easily easily go up. If
the labor market continues to weaken and
inflation isn't quite as bad, the entire
curve could fall just the long end less
than the front end. I think some of the
risks have sort of transferred more to
labor, but remember, you're going to
lose topline growth as well as inflation
does go up and consumers start to pull
back. So, here's the latest this
morning. Investors looking ahead to a
double dose of inflation data before the
FOMC meeting next week. Amanda Linham of
Black Rockck writing, "We anticipate the
Fed's rate cutting cycle will ultimately
resemble normalization cuts to lessen
the degree of the restrictive stance."
Amanda joins us now for more. Amanda,
good morning.
>> Good morning. Thank you for having me.
>> I want to lean on something you've been
talking about. It's the growth inflation
mix. It's been souring through summer.
Do you expect it to get better through
the rest of the year?
>> I think uh through the rest of the year,
no. But into 2026, maybe there's some
potential for a recovery. I've been
really positively surprised by the
commentary from management teams on the
second quarter earnings season. They're
pointing to a myriad of operational
levers to help them navigate this
uncertainty. If you couple that with
some easing and financial conditions
that we do expect from uh rate cuts that
will probably materialize starting in
September. um coupled with some of the
fiscal impulse I think that does set up
for a more constructive stance at least
or not least of which because some of
the uncertainty has also been lowered.
So I think the key message that we're
advocating for investors is there's an
opportunity cost to being too defensive
in this market. Um I think in your
question um it's notable that the risk
asset move is actually different from
the economic backdrop. Right. So there's
a bit of an economic hover into the rest
of the year, but actually we're pretty
constructive on risk assets and actually
December is quite a favorable month
seasonally for corporate credit. So
which is the bigger risk? I mean, as as
Emory is doom scrolling over here, she
talks about a risk of potentially a
deterioration in the labor market that
Neil Dut calls a recession potentially
down the line. And then on the flip
side, you have a Fed that's cutting when
they don't have to. And you see runaway
inflation and everyone buying gold like
John. So at which point, which fear is
the most overstated? So, I would say
we're very respectful of the softening
in the labor market that has been
materializing. Um, the Fed views its
current stance as modestly restrictive.
There's not as much cushion for them to
cut, for example, by 50 basis points in
our view like they did in September of
last year because they're just starting
from a lower point. I think the way that
we view this is that the Fed really
wants to get ahead of a material kind of
nonlinear deterioration in the labor
market. Do they have to cut rates? If
you look at a variety of risk assets, it
would tell you no. But there are pockets
of corporate credit, of consumer credit,
um that would actually welcome some some
lessening of the degree of restriction.
I think if I had to boil it down, it
really is the growth backdrop in the
labor market that I think is the more
pressing concern at this point. I was
surprised that Chair Pal noted that um
in Jackson Hole that one time doesn't
mean all at once on the inflation pass
through. And so it almost seems like
they're bracing for this kind of rolling
impact of inflation, which I think is a
tone shift from the Fed. Do you think
that Thursday matters at all? CPI,
>> I I do. I think I think it matters, but
I think the bar for the market to allow
it to derail what they believe is the
forward path of monetary policy is also
very high. Um, so really the the
commentary from companies is that they
have a myriad of of navigating tools to
to go through this dynamic, this
uncertainty. In some instances, they're
taking price, in some instances, they're
not. Um, so I think yes, we have a a eye
on the inflation data, but the one data
point is not going to, I think, derail
the path. It would need to be a
consistent pattern of kind of second
round effects of inflation.
>> But what kind of print could we see that
you think actually does get Jane Pal's
attention?
>> Well, I mean, I think um obviously goods
are in focus. Um, from the perspective
of the Fed, I think they're bracing for
um some upward pressure on inflation. I
mean, they've been almost kind of
looking at something above the 3% range.
um as terms of a possibility, but I I
actually think it's more in kind of the
second round effects. Does it cause an
increase in wage inflation? Do we have
kind of labor shortages that are causing
upward pressure on services? It seems
like the goods is baked in, but the
services is more of an issue. But I I
don't think we're going to get that
answer in Marie on Thursday. I think
that's a longer term trend.
>> I'm so pleased you mentioned that one
line from Chairman Pal's speech because
I actually think that's the most
important line for the next maybe 6
months. the chairman is basically
setting themselves up to ignore hot
inflation prints for the next several
months. Doesn't that make this setup for
markets pretty bullish?
>> Yes, but it's also part of the reason
why we're expecting steeper interest
rate curves. Uh right. So I I do think
there are some tradeoffs. Um but yes in
in terms of the lessening the degree of
restriction is a welcome development for
corporate credit especially when they're
not doing it in response to a
significant deterioration that for a
beat if I can just to explain it a
little bit more. So when we go into a
hot inflation print it's not going to
reduce the amount of interest rate cuts
because we understand through the Fed's
reaction function articulated by
chairman Pal Jackson Hull that's not
going to disrupt things but you're going
to see it further out along the curve.
>> I think so and I think that's what you
have been seeing in episodically. We've
backed away for example the 30-year from
that 5% level. We're closer to 4.7 as of
this morning. Uh but I I do think we are
expecting volatility in longend rates.
That's not specific to the US by the
way. That's a global phenomenon. Um that
coupled with some of the fiscal overhang
I think you expect super curves.
>> What's going to drive risk appetite the
front end or the long end?
>> Uh well I think yields across the board
have been driving risk appetite and you
can see it. Look no further than the new
issue market in the in the this week.
Actually new issue concessions are very
modest. Volumes are very heavy. yields
are actually backing away from the
peaks. Investor demand has been
insatiable. Uh right. So we've seen very
modest new issue concessions and a lot
of appetite for that risk. And so I
think it's the yield backdrop across the
curve that remains pretty attractive by
historical levels.
>> Such an interesting moment. This setup
financial markets are not demanding rate
reductions.
>> But the labor markets like screaming for
them based on the revisions we'll see
again later this morning.
>> Yeah. And this really comes at a moment
when the US government could get
penalized in terms of long-term
borrowing costs. But companies could
have a very robust funding backdrop,
especially because people might prefer
owning them for a little more yields
than just owning the straight government
bonds that are seen maybe as less
creditworthy.
>> Can I ask you the chicken or the egg
question? Forgive me for asking it. Are
financial markets doing well because
we're anticipating rate cuts or they
doing well because it's anticipating a
recovery?
>> I think financial markets are doing well
because corporates have been very
forthcoming about all of the operational
tools at their disposal. I think
actually it's because we've had above
trend growth for 2023 and 2024 and
perhaps the market underestimated the
degree of cushion that was actually
embedded in financial in in corporate
balance sheets.
>> Amanda, I appreciate it as always. Thank
you, Amanda Linham of Black Rockck on a
very resilient corporate America.
>> Yeah, you know, Amanda is reflecting
what I hear from other corporate
executives across the board. They're
surprised at how decent things have been
and that even though there's been a lot
of headline risk, they haven't seen it
in their underlying businesses to the
same degree that they had expected. You
hear that again and again and again. And
then they lay out why they can reduce
prices on something that's tied to oil
prices but can increase prices on
something that's tied uh to something uh
more tangible.
>> Max Ker, HSBC first guest out of the
gate early on this morning basically
said us to us, don't anchor your view on
the equity market around payrolls
growth. Anchor your view around the
equity market around what's happening
with corporate earnings and corporate
America. And that's been the tale for
him. You and I both agree and Emory, I
know you do, too, that this dissonance
can't go on forever.
>> Something's got to give.
>> Something's got to give. And that I
think is really
>> also if you're sitting in the White
House, you can't just say the economy is
doing well cuz we just hit another
all-time high when people are losing
their jobs.
>> I saw that with Biden. Doesn't work too
well.
>> No,
>> you don't want to repeat that act.
That's for sure. Up next on the program,
Emily Roland of John Hancock, Walt Pisik
of Lightshed Partners, James Eggohoff of
BMP, and we'll catch up with Gersian
Dist of Alliance Bernstein from New York
City. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
>> The bond market has this confidence that
the Fed is going to stick to its 2%
inflation target. If
>> you get a really bad print on inflation
this week, then I think the long end
could easily easily go up.
>> We are expecting the Fed to cut rates.
If the Fed wants to cut rates to
stimulate an economy with no excess
capacity, they're just going to create
more inflation.
>> We think inflation, you know, lingers a
little higher.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> The opening panel about 90 minutes away.
This is the third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance and it starts right now
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Your scores look like this
in equity markets. Financial markets
firmer by a tenth of 1% on the S&P up by
0.2 on the NASDAQ 100. In the bond
market, yields a little bit higher by
two or three basis points across the
curve, just north of 350 after settling
down sub 350 in yesterday's session. 351
91 this morning. The economic data
you're looking for comes at 10 a.m.
Eastern time. It's about 2 hours away.
You'll get those benchmark revisions to
payroll growth over the previous year
through the month of March. And then
later, an event that used to be the
event and no longer. Apple iPhone, a new
one at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. And it
just feels like such a dud over and over
again.
>> Expectations are pretty low. It also
used to be that Apple shares would rally
significantly in the 6 months ahead of
their uh conference where they released
some new products. There's not a lot of
anticipation. The shares have lagged
behind the other magnificent seven
names. There's a real question of how
big of an innovation would they need in
order to restart uh the dynamism around
the name. You raised the point of Google
and the tongue-in-cheek advertisement
against Apple and I think that's exactly
the right point. There are competitors
and they're coming after Apple in a new
way. How do they fend those off and how
much do they have to really innovate in
another kind of direction? And when it
comes to Apple, the setup is they're
going to unveil this new iPhone that
people are not really that excited
about. At the same time, will they price
hike on these iPhones? Will there be a
price hike? because they are dealing
with things like tariffs as well, but
you're raising the price for a phone
that people maybe don't even want.
>> How long has Dan Ives of Westbush been
coming on this program and talking about
the upgrade super cycle?
We've been talking about that forever
and again and again and again every year
there's not a phone that I believe
personally is worth upgrading to. So now
I think we get to the more important
question. What would it take for that
existing base to believe I'm going to go
somewhere else? Because that's the most
important question now for competitors.
You've got to the point where people are
upgrading. The upgrading super cycle's
just never come around. It's always been
like the bullish view. It's not
happening. What would it take to
actually get people to move away from
the Apple ecosystem? How close are we to
that moment?
>> And how much does this really hinge on
artificial intelligence, the development
that's been elsewhere and not
necessarily with uh with Apple? We've
seen a lot of their AI related staff
poached by the likes of Meta. Uh, and I
do wonder whether Google and some of
that uh, rhetoric that you were reading,
the idea of maybe if everyone's hoping
that this new launch will be it and it's
always going to happen and it never
happens, maybe you're looking at the
wrong place. Where else would you look?
Something that can make your lunch, make
your dinner, tell you how good you look
that day.
>> A humanoid robot
>> in the shape of in the shape of a thin
phone. I don't think so. You know,
>> clean your house.
>> That launch in Certino, California
coming later on this afternoon. We'll
have full coverage on the ground of
Panavan from the Bloomberg technology
team. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Emily Roland of John Hancock
Investment Management as stocks trade
near all-time highs. Wisik of Lihed
Partners as Apple is set for its latest
product unveiling and James Agoff of BMP
Parabar as he's raising its bets on rate
cuts. We begin this hour with stocks
edging higher ahead of key economic
data. Emily Ronand of John Hancock
Investment Management writing, "Risk
assets may be overly confident that rate
cuts will be able to mitigate the
associated economic risk with a
weakening jobs market." Emily joins us
now for more. Emily, welcome. You don't
seem comfortable with stocks at all-time
highs.
No, John, we think it's right that the
bond market has seen yields come down
and repric for three rate cuts this
year, but equity markets are still in
this honeymoon phase where the weaker
labor market data is enough to ensure
that the Fed's going to cut, but not
weak enough that the Fed can't sort of
get us out of it. And the equity markets
on the biggest honeymoon ever. We're
trading at 22 times forward earnings
with double digit earnings growth
embedded in that number. high yield bond
spreads, an astonishing sub 3%
suggesting that there's really no risk
in credit right now. And we think, you
know, the honeymoon's probably over when
initial jobless claims start to rise,
when you see high yield bond spreads
start to widen. Not we're not seeing
that right now, but the best time to
reposition portfolios is while you're
still sort of like on the beach on your
honeymoon. The sun is still shining. So
we think sort of fading into these more
speculative corners of the market that
are still seeing gains and redeploying
assets into higher quality areas of the
market right now makes a lot of sense.
>> Before we get to how you'd rotate away
from where the market is priced right
now, let me just offer you the bull
case. It comes from Mike Wilson of
Morgan Stanley. Acknowledges there are
some risk, could be some bumps along the
way into year end, but says this, June
is the latest low point for payrolls
this cycle. Emily, that line's really
important. What if I told you that June
was the worst of it, that was the low
and that everything in our future
improves from here? Would that be
sufficient to stick with things?
>> I think it's a a tough case to make
right now, John. You know, markets are
acting like this is Goldilocks labor
market data. To us, it's not. Job
opening 7.1 million in July. That is
near a postcoavid low. Challenger layoff
tallies were up 40% month overmonth and
13% year-over-year. And companies are
telling us that they have the least
amount of hiring plans since 2009.
Non-farm payrolls, we know a very weak
22,000 with negative uh numbers from
June. Health care is driving all of
that. Without the health care sector,
jobs growth would actually be negative.
The unemployment rate at 4.3% that's a
postcoavid high as well. So, we think
that there's actually something more
nefarious going on here with the labor
market. We would not brush over that.
And at the meantime, inflation, yes,
it's a little bit sticky right now, but
we're seeing major shifts in the housing
market right now. Shelters, 35%
of CPI. Home prices are down four months
in a row. Right now, there's a lot more
buyers than uh sellers and buyers uh in
this market. So, we see all of those
things contributing to slower economic
growth, uh worse cracks in the labor
market, and the Fed, frankly, here being
behind the curve.
>> How do you square this with corporate
sentiment that isn't that bad? And I'm
looking, for example, at the small
business optimism index from NFIB that
came out earlier this morning that
actually went to the highest level since
February with companies talking about
how their sales prospects are growing
going up. They're seeing more
opportunity to sell into an economy
where the consumer doesn't seem all that
bad. How does that square with some of
the labor market data that we've been
getting?
>> Yeah, it's amazing, Lisa, and it all
comes back to the wealth effect. Um,
we've had markets up 23 and 24
backtoback 25 plus% returns. The S&P 500
is now up 11% year-to date. And by the
way, if you own international stocks,
don't even worry if they have earnings
or not. Um, Chinese stocks are now the
new technical titan of markets. Earnings
growth is 0%. Uh, over the past year,
European financials up 50%. So,
portfolios are contributing to this uh
better sentiment. there's more
confidence um and consumers are
continuing to spend. Until that stops,
uh you know, the consumer can continue
to trudge along here. The key again is
going to be the labor market. We're
seeing consumers pulling back because
they are concerned about the ability of
jobs uh that are available out there. Um
but right now, if the market keeps going
up, there's a huge difference between
what's going on in Main Street and
what's happening on Wall Street right
now. And I think that's really fueling a
lot of the confidence we've seen across
these firms. And I get a sense that you
don't think that can continue that it
has to break at some point and that the
underlying economy will be a leading
indicator in some capacity of the
business cycle. What is considered a
haven in that type of backdrop where you
are still on the beach, still on your
honeymoon, but looking to be a little
bit prepared?
>> So, we're still looking for higher
quality parts of the market. And Lisa,
the worst performing factors this year
have been high quality and low
volatility. What's been rewarded is the
opposite. Low quality and high
volatility. In fact, you've seen
multiple expansion just absolutely
remarkable across areas like the MSCI
EHA value index. Um areas that were once
considered cheap. Emerging market
equities have seen remarkable multiple
expansion as well. There are areas in
the United States that are actually
still trading at a discount to their
20-year average. Small and midcap
equities in particular. We have a
preference for mid over small given
elevated earnings expectations 17%
expected for next year and they are
higher quality. So we're still looking
at challenges in small caps is almost
40% of the Russell 2000 index is
comprised of unprofitable companies. So
we like companies that make money. We're
finding that in large caps. The
challenge there of course is the
valuation risk. We're looking to
mitigate that valuation risk with higher
quality midcap stocks. And then of
course, as you know, we're still
embracing highquality bonds. Investors
are sitting in $7 trillion of cash right
now. We think redeploying that cash into
a mix of highquality bonds in the
intermediate part of the curve still
makes a lot of sense here. We don't want
investors to miss out on the potential
for pretty elevated total return over
the remainder of this year and into
2026. I know a lot of people are excited
potentially about this rotation when it
comes to small caps and midcaps, but how
can you have small midcaps do well if
the labor market to your point is really
weakening?
>> Yeah, to us it's not as much of a small
cap story. We do like higher quality
stocks within small cap indices, but
they have um higher levels of debt. I
think you could see a rally in small cap
stocks if rates start to fall pretty
precipitously. you know, maybe we get
some uh you know, more nefarious
employment data and inflation actually
misses on the downside. You see yields
come down, small caps rally temporarily
on that. But midcaps is really where
we're finding the quality and the
ability to, you know, deal with the fact
that the top 10 stocks in the S&P 500
now comprise 40% of the index. We still
like US large cap stocks, but that is is
a serious challenge here. We just think
that the US in a way has been sort of
left behind as investors have allocated
towards international. It's like you
know the international stocks get like a
participation prize right now where the
US really needs to earn it and that's
where we think uh the value is today.
You sound a lot like Neil Dut when he
talks about what's happening in the risk
to the economy in terms of the labor
market. I'm going to ask you a question
I asked him. Do you think we're on the
edge of a recession?
Shoot, I missed that interview earlier.
But um you know, I we think it's it's
certainly possible. I think again right
now the idea is that growth is is slowly
decelerating. We think it's probably
decelerating quicker than than investors
expect, but there's this myopic focus on
rate cuts and the ability for the Fed to
get us out of it. We we certainly hope
that's the case. Um hope is not the best
investment strategy out there. So, it's
really just about repositioning for that
lower growth environment. uh equity
markets are sort of yawning at the
weaker data right now. We think it's
time to wake up and sort of think about,
you know, preparing portfolios for a a
weaker growth backdrop.
>> Emily, appreciate your take. Thank you.
Emily Roland there of John Hancock
Investment Management. Emily, thank you.
I'm right there with you. Just tallying
up the morning so far. Emily Roland says
it's time to wake up. Neil Dutter says
we're on the precipice of recession.
Then you've got Max Katner, super
bullish. You've got Amanda Linham of
Black Rockck who's constructive on
corporate credit and the two that are
bullish are pointed to corporate
earnings and the two that are super
bearish right now are pointing to the
labor market and that's the disconnect
of the very moment.
>> How long can the disconnect continue? Is
this disconnect something that's secular
or or cyclical and this is something we
keep talking about or is there a
breaking point and one has to break to
the other and either corporate profits
will precede some sort of hiring boom or
we see the other way around. Corporate
profits come down to some of the labor
market wos. We did see small business uh
plans for capex fall pretty
significantly in this latest uh this
latest survey. So again, contradictory
signals. Try to get anything consistent.
Good luck.
>> Stocks are up again this morning. Been
been pretty consistent about that.
>> That's true.
>> Up by 0.1% on the S&P 500 with an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's cross over to Yahara Arn
for more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. The Senate Banking Committee
will vote tomorrow on White House
economic adviser Steven Myron's
nomination to the Fed Board of
Governors. This paves the way for
potentially full Senate confirmation
September 15th, just one day before the
Fed's critical policy meeting starts.
The central bank is widely expected to
cut interest rates for the first time
since December. Meanwhile, French
President Emanuel Mcronone is searching
for a new prime minister for the fifth
time in less than two years. Premier
Francois Bau is formerly presenting his
resignation to Mcronone today after he
lost a confidence vote in parliament as
he failed to win support for his deficit
cutting plans. Mcronone says he'll
appoint a new premier in the coming
days. And the deals keep coming.
Angloame has agreed to acquire Canada's
tech resources in a zero premium
transaction, marking one of the biggest
ever deals in the mining industry. The
agreement gives Anglo access to tech's
much coveted portfolio of copper mines
and if approved by regulators the
acquisition is expected to be completed
in 12 to 18 months. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yahara later this hour in about 30
minutes from now. Up next on the
program, the morning calls plus Walt
Pisik of Lightshed partners with Apple
set to unveil its latest product later
on this afternoon. Live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
We're still looking at a at a bull
market uh that continues to maybe 6,600
6,800 by the end of the year and 7,700
or higher uh by the end of next year. We
don't really need a a rate cut here. And
if we get a rate cut uh that increases
the odds of a meltup and then the
valuation multiple suddenly at 25
is where the tech bubble burst.
>> Edardenni of Yardeni Research leaning
into the so-called meltup in this equity
market. If this Fed eases too much, too
much, of course, that's your judgment
call. Equity futures on the S&P 500
positive by a tenth of 1% this morning.
The Nasdaq up by 0.2. That's the price
action. Here are your morning calls.
First up, City upgrading Dick Sporting
to buy, believing its Foot Locker
acquisition will lead to growth. Your
second call from Key Bank downgrading
Lululemon to sector weight citing a lack
of positive catalysts. And finally,
Beimo raising its price target on Oracle
to 275, highlighting AIdriven revenue
strength. Sticking with tech, investors
looking ahead to Apple's product launch
event at 1 p.m. Eastern time. Joining us
now is Bloomberg senior tech editor,
Dana Wman. Dana, welcome to the program.
Thanks for being here. Can you just help
us understand what we can expect to see
later on this afternoon?
>> Yes. So, this should be one of Apple's
more significant hardware launches over
the past few years. The iPhone has not
seen a major aesthetic makeover in quite
a few years. Um about five, I would say.
Um so for the first time, we're seeing
um some actually new um hardware here.
Um not just new software features. Um
the one that's gotten the most attention
just in Bloomberg's reporting so far has
been the iPhone Air. Um which is true to
its name going to be a skinny iPhone. Um
but don't skimp on the other um phones
that are coming. I think those might be
a little more consumer friendly and that
they're supposed to have both battery
life improvements and um pretty uh
significantly revamped camera setups. So
that might offer more to more consumers
than just the idea of a skinny phone for
the sake of a skinny phone.
>> That's what I was going to ask, Dana. Is
this what consumers are ultimately
asking for? I mentioned the Google
commercial that's been airing in this
country recently, and I'll read the
quote out for you. If you buy a new
phone because of a feature that's coming
soon, but it's been coming soon for a
full year, you could change your
definition of soon, or you could change
your phone, just how great has
competition become? I I think your
question is a great one. It's one I've
been asking all year, basically. Um, to
what extent are consumers really asking
for skinny phones? We've certainly seen
a variety of them, not just from Apple
presumably today, but also from brands
like Samsung. And this really does feel
cyclical in a big way. There was a
moment a few years ago when all of the
phone makers were experimenting with
these really um sleek, very, very thin
um handsets, but they do come with
compromises both on the battery life
front of course um but also the camera
cap capabilities. Some of the most
advanced camera features do require more
literal space um inside the enclosure of
the phone.
>> Dana Wman of Bloomberg. Dana, appreciate
your tape. Thank you. Setting us up for
the big unveil later on this afternoon.
Joining us now to discuss is Walt Pisik
of Light Shed Partners. Walt, welcome to
the program, sir. in the bond market for
a long long time. They used to call a
certain trade the widowmaker. It was
shorting JGBs and ultimately at some
point things do change. Well, it was the
same story for technology for a long
long time. People betting against Apple
were wrong. Are they right to bet
against this company now?
>> I mean, I also heard in your earlier
segment talking about these top 10
stocks being dominant and I remember
people telling me that like you can't
bet against Apple because the money
flows into the top 10 stocks are always
going to keep it up. And that obviously
didn't work. And and to your point, um,
you know, there are leaders, historical
leaders like GE that for a variety of
reasons are no longer leaders. Obviously
not putting Apple in the same camp
there. But the bottom line is they're
trading in an above uh market multiple
30 times. Not the highest they've ever
traded at, but above market. And growth
has slowed down. And there has been
obviously a lack of of innovation. You
know, you were just talking about
thinner phones and longer batteries. Is
that really innovation in in 2025 when
when Google obviously is pushing forward
with with AI um and agentic AI in a lot
of their products?
>> Yeah. So, Heroin Chic Phone does phones
don't get it done for you. I just wonder
going forward what could get it done for
you for them to announce.
>> I mean, this is not really an event that
matters as much for Apple anymore, is
crazy as that sounds. And frankly, if
you look at the stock performance around
product announcements, um the day after,
the month, it's the day of day after,
month after, it doesn't really move.
When it moves is WWDC, remember the last
time the stock really moved was when
they promised all these AI features a
year or two ago. Obviously, none of
those AI features actually materialize,
but that's what people care about, the
services side of the business and what
the progress is on AI because in the
meantime, unless they announce an
autonomous car or some new product
category that can give them 10, 20, 30
billion of revenue opportunity, giving
us a thinner phone or something with
longer battery um probably is not enough
to have an impact in the market in the
near term. Well, you've come on the show
before and said you think that there
needs to be a change in leadership,
something that is significant to really
show some sort of different pathway
ahead. What's your outlook? How do you
see this developing since they are
losing some of their AI personnel to the
likes of Meta? They have been lagging
behind the likes of Google when it comes
to some of these agentic fe features.
What do you think the evolution is going
to be for the likes of Apple?
I mean, and this, by the way, this is
not a new topic, and this is certainly
not I've covered the stock for a long
time, and it's not something that I've
been harping on from the beginning. I've
been a Tim Cook fan uh over the years.
Um I think there's a Wall Street Journal
reporter that wrote a book about the
pressure that the company even felt
internally about about the lack of
excuse me, innovation. Um you know, so
what they the problem is now is you have
this massive transition to AI. So the
the ability for others to disrupt
whether it's in this product category of
phones or a product category that that
disrupts phones altogether in terms of
how we interact with our data. There's
obviously real risk and at the same time
there is not just innovation coming out
of the company in terms of of new
products and and there's no no one can
suggest evidence otherwise in recent
years. The last great products obviously
watch and even the car project were with
Johnny Ies who's ironically now working
on what possibly could be a competing
product um with open AI.
>> So what do you think they need to do
Walt?
>> I mean it's they're in a tough spot
probably not allowing or enabling their
AI engineers to be poached by Facebook
and others uh would be a good start. you
know, acquisitions can obviously be a
way to to jumpst start your your you
know, yourself into the area. Um, but
again, you started this segment or this
portion asking about management change.
Sometimes you just need a senior leader
that is more product focused that can
drive you to new products that might be
less focused on, you know, maximizing
taxes, right? Keeping cash in Ireland or
maximizing gross margin by, you know,
all the manufacturing stuff that they've
done in China. and someone that can take
those chances and push forward and
invest the money uh to get yourself into
new products. This is a mega company. I
mentioned autonomous cars as as an
opportunity. There's plenty of other
product categories out there that a
company with Apple's brand, you know,
staff of expertise, right? Great people
within the company of of Apple and the
balance sheet that they can, I think,
you know, get into some new markets.
>> Well, appreciate your take as always,
sir. Looking forward to the big reveal
later on. Thank you. Wer pisik there of
light shed partners. Use the balance
sheet but not for buybacks for
acquisitions and investing in the
muchneeded upgrades that the people like
Walder and others want to see.
>> Be bold, be nimble, and how much has
their size and some of their past really
kind of hampered their ability to look
outside the iPhone. You wonder, is it
going to be a robot? I mean, that's
something that people are looking at to
replace the iPhone. I'm serious. People
are sick of doom scrolling. You're
correct. And so, they want a robot to
tell them what to do and and be their
little agent. And that's what I think
people are looking for
>> when it comes to though what is going on
Apple in terms of Tim Cook. I heard you
guys on Friday talk about the seating
arrangement Trump had at the AI tech
dinner. And Tim Cook was across from
Trump and to the right. And I'm not even
sure if he's going on the UK visit with
the president that Jensen Wang is going.
And I wonder if actually he needs to be
a little bit more forceful in
Washington.
>> Just for the record, I don't want the
humanoid robot telling me what to do.
>> I want to tell the humanoid robot what
to do. Isn't that the whole point?
>> But you want yours ordering you around.
This is getting really personal, John.
>> I mean, you just, you know,
>> I just, you know, I want him to tell I
want the robot to tell me where to go,
what I need to do, tell me my schedule.
I think that would be really helpful. It
sounds scary. No, I think, you know,
you've got a meeting here. Please go.
>> Can I just say based on working with you
for a long, long time, taking
instructions?
>> I don't know, Brammo.
>> We're up against a robot.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Equity futures on the S&P
500 positive here by a tenth of 1%. A
lift into this market going into the
opening bell about 60 minutes away. On
the NASDAQ, we're positive by 0.2%. As
we count down to that opening bell just
around the corner with your morning
movers, here's Danny Burgerer with more.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Some great news for United
Health over the past hour or so. shares
up 3.9% on the news that 78% of their
customers are rated in the higher
category when it comes to their Medicare
Advantage program. This is important
because those higher rated users mean
that United Health gets bonus payments.
They get more reimbursements from the
government. It's a company that's been
struggling a lot for their things like
pricing when it comes to that area
specifically. So shares being sent up
just under 4%. Meanwhile, to the
downside there is Fox Corp. succession
drama of who takes over Fox Corp after
Rupert Murdoch has finally been figured
out. It will be Lachlan Murdoch the
favorite son. That means that the three
other Murdoch children will be selling
their stakes of just about 1.4 billion
dollars of worth. That dilutive event
means that we are seeing shares falling
5.6%
this morning. Finally wrapping things up
with one of the big movers to the upside
that is Nebus. They have sealed a deal
with Microsoft. They will be building
about $19 billion worth of AI
infrastructure for Microsoft. What a
return for this company. It had been
sanctioned in 2022 because originally it
was a Russian company. The CEO then spun
off, sold its Russian assets, relisted
or at least readquartered the company in
Amsterdam. It is listed here in the US.
So that deal with Microsoft sending
shares up by just under 55%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Danny Burgerer with
the movers. Looking forward to Danny and
Matt working you through the opening
bell in the next 30 minutes or so.
Bloomberg open interest just around the
corner. Succession, the last great piece
of TV
>> to be honest with you. I I don't think
anything's really beaten since.
>> Well, I think we're watching it play out
in the corporate sphere. Is that
essentially what you're saying with the
>> That's what Danny was talking about.
>> Well, which I think absolutely. I think
that you're seeing that and you're
seeing that in other spheres as well.
>> Was that based on the Murdoch's?
>> Was that really? Was it? You know, I'll
confession. I haven't seen it.
>> Oh, you haven't watched it?
>> I haven't seen it. So, I'm going to try
to like fashion. Okay. I'm watching
Boardwalk Empire. I'm kind of going back
now.
>> You got to watch.
>> Busy catching up on the last two.
>> I almost wish I haven't seen it. So, I
have something to look forward to
because it's that good.
>> You should watch that. I'm going to move
on, but you should tune in. All right.
>> Payrolls revisions out at 10 a.m.
Eastern time. Look out for that. It's
the main event for a lot of people
following this economy. Mike McKe is
going to run you through it now. He
joins us for more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, here's what we
get. Uh, every month the BLS surveys
about 161,000 different businesses and
comes up with its monthly jobs report
which is then revised twice. But then
they revise it again by using actual
data, not survey data once a year.
Unemployment insurance tax receipts.
They cover the year to March of a year.
So this will be April 2024 to March
2025. Uh the final revisions will be
announced in January uh 26. uh
employment report which basically comes
out the first week of February. Now in
2024 the final revision was 589,000
fewer jobs but uh you can see the
preliminary number was 818,000
so much wailing and nashing of teeth
when that first came out. Uh and we are
expecting it to be revised a little bit
higher by January. But the idea that we
have maybe lost that many jobs and the
survey uh we have shows estimates
between 200,000 and almost 1 million uh
is something that people are going to be
concerned about. The Fed is obviously
aware of all of this, but the question
will be should they have started cutting
sooner? And obviously the president may
weigh in on all of this with his uh
unhappiness with the BLS. But we also
have to point out that when all is said
and done, you look at these numbers and
you look at the revisions and you look
at how much does it really mean, last
year the 818,000 would have been half a
percent of total payrolls. Private
payroll 610 of a percent. You can see
the other numbers there. They don't even
represent 1% of the overall jobs in the
country. They're very small errors, but
they are errors because it's a survey
rather than uh actual data. And so, uh,
you can find something to argue about or
you can say we have a pretty good data
system and we'll make the best of it.
>> Mike, for once, I'd actually like to
give the Federal Reserve some real
credit based on these numbers. You know,
a year ago, a lot of people were
criticizing the Federal Reserve for
cutting interest rates by 100 basis
points on what turned out to be a head
fake in the labor market. But don't
these numbers, won't these numbers later
on this morning vindicate the Fed's
response to the labor market weakness of
last year?
They probably should, John, because they
will include the numbers from last
summer, and estimates are that the
slowdown in jobs was probably even more
pronounced than the Fed thought it was
at the time. What we won't get is
month-by-month figures. Those won't come
out until the January release. So, we
won't know for sure, but it may give the
Fed some satisfaction that they were on
the right track.
>> Mike McKe with the latest. Thank you,
Michael. When we heard from Chairman
Pal, I think it might have been in the
last news conference or the one before
when he said, "If anything, we were too
late last year." And I remember all
sitting there going, "Too late." A lot
of people thought, "You shouldn't have
cut anyway." Based on these numbers, we
might get later. It could well support
their argument all along.
>> Why they cut by 100 basis points even
though they had the move in the long end
of the yield curve. If you push it
forward though till now, you wonder if
this justifies a more dovish take on
exactly how Fed policy should go going
forward. So, does this vindicate people
saying you should do a repeat of what we
saw last year?
>> Well, two things on that point. One, the
Treasury Secretary around this table was
talking about 50 basis points should be
needed in September, but doesn't just
vindicate the Fed. Doesn't this
vindicate the president for giving J Pal
the nickname too late? Isn't he almost
correct? J Pal was too late when it
comes to inflation and now potentially
he's going to be too late when it comes
to weakening labor market.
>> So, I'm going to borrow an argument from
Neil Data because I have opinions as you
all know. This is what this is what Neil
Dutter said over the last year or so and
he was right to point this out. Neil
made the point that the Republican
argument around the Biden economy was
always wrong because they were drawing
too much attention to the Federal
Reserve saying the Federal Reserve were
being political, cutting interest rates
to support Biden going into the
election. What they should have been
doing was emphasizing why the Federal
Reserve was looking to cut interest
rates and it was because the economy was
weak. And that was Neil's argument
coming into 2025 that this economy
wasn't as strong as people thought it
was. That the Biden economy was weaker
than people realized. And that should
have been the Republican argument all
along. Lay off the Federal Reserve,
focused on the labor market and the
economy. That's an argument, a man with
no opinions that I have a little bit of
sympathy with.
>> At the same time, you could fast forward
to now. They say they want them to cut
interest rates to allow the next phase
of growth. You could say that the
economy is weaker than it is perceived
to be and that is the reason why those
rate cuts are necessary. Be careful what
you wish for. Right now the risk markets
are not necessarily seeing that in any
capacity. But that I think is really the
tension under underpinning this.
>> Let's stick with the economy. James
Agoff of BMP Parabar revising it
long-standing forecast for no rate cuts
this year. Now expected consecutive 25
basis point rate cuts through to year
end before moving to a quarterly pace in
the first half of 26. James joins us now
for more. James, good morning.
>> Thanks. Great to be back.
>> Fantastic to have you with us. Let's
start with the change because it is a
big change for you and a team. What
underpins that move?
>> So, let's talk about the things that
haven't changed. We continue to see the
economy doing reasonably well. We have a
soft patch in growth associated with the
tariff transition. We have a labor
market where we have demand and supply
cooling at a roughly the same pace where
we're not seeing an accumulation of
labor slack and we're expecting a
prolonged period of elevated inflation.
We've been expecting that since since
November and that hasn't changed. Think
the two things have changed for the Fed.
One is that the political pressure has
become overwhelming. they perceive
themselves to be under siege and there's
a strong imperative to try to take down
the temperature a little bit and to
deliver some easing. Secondly, we have
we're having a more pronounced cooling
of labor supply and demand than we had
expected. There's a lot of experience
historically with rapidly cooling labor
demand and it tends to take on a life of
its own when it happens. We know very
little about what happens when labor
supply cools a lot. It could cool very
quickly or it might not. But the Fed is
making the judgment between politics and
the risk that the labor cooling and
demand side accelerates that delivering
some policy easing is appropriate.
>> Do you think that 75 basis points of
rate cuts through the end of this year,
which is your new call I believe would
ignite a longerterm inflation or do you
think that the labor market is weak
enough to kind of overwhelm any kind of
longerterm inflationary impulse?
>> For for us in answering that question,
it's about accumulation of slack. So,
are we seeing an accumulation of labor
slack? And so far, we aren't. So, the
unemployment rate remains pretty low.
It's very it's well within or close to
the range it's been in over the past
year. And so, for us, you we wouldn't
ordinarily have been expecting a whole
lot of policy easing. It's not so much
about what we've seen so far. It's about
the politics and also about the risks
going forward. So we think the Fed is
making a conscious choice in this
environment to prioritize reducing to
the maximum extent possible risks to the
labor market and it's accepting some
increased risk of inflation. Think with
the thought that it can deal with that
later if it relativeizes.
>> What's the new 2%? Is it 2 and a half%?
Is it 3%? Is it 3 12%? So, we think the
Fed is going to continue to target 2%
inflation, but we for us, we're going to
be a little less surprised going forward
if we see high inflation as opposed to
low inflation because we think they've
shifted their priorities a little bit.
It's a change in reaction function. So,
it wouldn't surprise us if investors
started to think a little bit more about
the possibility that inflation might run
on average over time a little bit hot to
the 2% objective.
>> When you say the Fed feels under siege
in terms of independence, what exactly
does that mean? because the market
doesn't think that the Fed independence
right now is really at risk.
>> So we we think the market is also
worried about the risk of recession and
we think that's helping to keep
inflation expectations priced into the
market lower. It's helping to push down
bond yields and that makes sense to us.
It's hard to rule out the risk that
labor demand cooling you picks up pace
from here especially if policy
uncertainty associated with tariffs
remains high. Um but ultimately there
the Fed depends on political support
from the White House and from Congress
to be able to make short-term sacrifices
in the economy to achieve a long-term
social benefit which is 2% inflation.
And right now it seems based on the
media reporting that the Fed isn't sure
it has it and so it feels a desire to
pull back just a little bit.
>> So you think there's a political
implication for them cutting in
September? We think it's part of the
calculus for them is how much is it
worth to keep this to have this elevated
level of tension and how what is the
economic benefit of doing that and right
now given the risks to the demand side
of the labor market there's a credible
case to cut and if that reduces some of
the tension that we're seeing in in
Washington so much the better.
>> Your central thesis though your base
case is that ultimately we can have this
step down in payrolls growth but
measures of slack remain stable. So the
Fed can help with cyclical shortfalls in
demand and the but it can't help with
structural change. So if the economy is
growing slowly and we're seeing poor job
growth because of a structural shock to
the economy, it can't necessarily help
with that. And so the way we're trying
to pull those two apart to see whether
it's cyclical or structural is evidence
of slack or the likely accumulation of
slack over time. So with the
unemployment rate pretty steady and with
vacancies, jobless claims, layoff rate,
all of those things relatively stable.
um that's telling us that slack is under
control. It's pretty it's pretty
rangebound and that in our base case
it's not likely to accumulate.
>> Let's just take this another step or so.
Let's say you're absolutely right and
you're seeing things in a way that other
people are blind to at the moment and I
know you've got some support out there.
It's not exactly a fringe view. Wall
Street's very divided on this issue. If
the Fed is cutting interest rates and
starts to stimulate demand at a time
when this economy is supply constrained,
you know where I'm going with this.
Where does this leave the inflation
story into 26?
>> So, we're above consensus for inflation
for 2026. We think that the Fed easing
rates here supports the economy staying
in a soft patch. So, it supports it not
moving into recession. The fact that the
Fed is doing this should make us even
more confident that the economy remains
robust, that we see positive growth, and
that the labor market stays stays in
good shape. And in that environment, we
are very comfortable being modestly
above above consensus and modestly above
2% for inflation next year. It strikes
me that someone has a hammer and they're
trying to deal with a social problem. It
doesn't feel like this is a very clean
way for the Fed to really stimulate job
growth. As you were saying, a secular
issue versus a structural issue. And I
wonder if this is going to be a tension
that can continue of a labor market that
kind of isn't very exciting to people.
Low higher, low fire type of dynamic for
the foreseeable future. But asset prices
can continue to climb, but businesses
can continue to deliver upperend
profits. Does that divide have longevity
or does it have to end at some point?
>> The Fed only has one tool. So the Fed
has interest rates and it has to go to
the FOMC meeting with the data it has,
not with the data that it would like to
have or that it might have at a later
time. And so it has to make a judgment
on what is the best course for interest
rates that produces its dual mandate and
that produces the sustainability
institution over the long term. And so
it's not an easy call. This is a turning
point in the economy. The data is being
prone to heavy revision. Um there are a
lot of competing narratives and
hypotheses on what's driving the data
that we're seeing and so we think this
is the call they're going to make. This
is the prioritization they're going to
choose.
>> James this was fascinating. Appreciate
your time. James Ego there of BMP
Parabar. I think we all need to change
our views on what a good payroll sprint
is in 2025 and into 26
>> because it's a supply side story because
of immigration and because there isn't
necessarily the same kind of population
growth. It's just hard to understand
what exactly that is when then you get
revisions on top of it because suddenly
negative jobs prints look very different
than ones with a positive ahead of them.
>> Those revisions an hour and about 20
minutes away with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahihara with more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Rupert Murdoch and his children
have settled their longrunning family
dispute. Under the new agreement,
Lachlan Murdoch becomes the sole
beneficiary of the trust that oversees
Fox Corp and News Corp, while his
siblings walk away with more than $1
billion each. The move ensures Fox News
and the wider empire will remain
conservative and under Lachland's
control for possibly decades to come.
Meanwhile, House Democrats released an
alleged birthday note from President
Donald Trump to convicted sex offender,
the late Jeffrey Epstein. The note
includes the signoff may every day be
another wonderful secret complete with a
drawing of a woman's body. Trump has
denied composing the message or that the
note even existed. And Apple is hosting
its biggest product launch event of the
year today where the company is
unveiling its new iPhone 17 lineup
including its thinnest phone ever, smart
watches as well as AirPods. The new
iPhones and their prices will be closely
watched, but as for AI, Apple users may
have to wait until next spring for any
significant advances in that area.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, we'll set you up for the
day ahead. Plus, Gersian Distance
Bernstein from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
I kind of think they probably should do
a little bit more upfront, but I don't
think that they will. Uh because, you
know, in their mind, they're kind of
worried about like the phantom inflation
expectation story or, you know, the
threat of potential inflation coming
from tariffs. I mean, I think those are
really secondary considerations at this
point given um what we're seeing in the
jobs market.
>> Neil Data of Renmack thinks we're on the
precipice of recession. Live from New
York, welcome to the program. Your
scores look like this. About 42 minutes
away from the opening bell. Futures are
positive by a tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ
100 up by 0.2. As we count you down to
the opening bell, here's the trading
diary for the week ahead at 10 a.m.
Eastern time. Payroll revisions. Later
on this afternoon, Apple's iPhone event
through to tomorrow. PPI data and the
Senate Banking Panel voting on Fed
nominee Steven Myron. Thursday, CPI plus
another round of jobless claims and an
ECB rate decision. On Friday going into
the weekend, um you consumer sentiment.
Then a week tomorrow, the Fed decision
is just around the corner. Let's stay on
that. Gersian Dist of Lance Bernstein
writing, "We still expect the Fed to
deliver a 25 basis point rate cut in
September with a larger cut more likely
than no cut at all. In truth, we think a
50 basis point cut could be easily
justified." Gerson's with us here in New
York. Gerson, good morning, my friend.
It's good to see you.
>> Morning, John. Good to be here.
>> Thanks for coming in. 50 basis points,
easily justified. How justified this
morning?
>> Well, let's be clear. I don't think
they're going to do 50. I think it is
justified. Look, we've gotten some
clarity. You know, the Fed has been in a
difficult position over the past few
months trying to balance the inflation
and and the labor data. And we got a
clear sign. What what what it told us
about the payroll number this time, it
wasn't just a one-mon thing. It was that
we've kind of transitioned from the past
few years where we were creating
somewhere of an average of 125,000 jobs
a month to more like 25,000. That's a
big change. Now, as as Chair Pal pointed
out, you got to look more closely the
unemployment rate, which has been
ticking up, right? As we know, there's a
change in the supply also, but
it's um it's really not
it's it's not a huge number in terms of
history. And and if you believe the
neutral rate is three or somewhat below
three, we're still very restrictive. So,
I expect the Fed to kind of frame it in
that way. I'm going to frame it as, you
know, the labor market is starting to
weaken. Things are still pretty good,
assuming we don't get a big surprise at
inflation later in the week. And they're
going to be say we're going to move more
towards neutral. If the Fed could
justify a 50 basis point rate cut, why
are people so excited about risk assets?
>> Well, you know, risk assets, I heard you
talking about it a little bit earlier.
They've come kind of become a little bit
disconnected from what's really going
on. Look, the thought is, and I'm not
smart enough to know if this is true,
that AI is going to be this big game
changer. We're going to have a
productivity uh change. You know, I I
will tell you that when stocks have been
this I don't want to say overvalued,
they've been at these levels kind of 23
times and stuff. I think the average
return over the next decade has been
like 2%. So, you're betting against a
lot of history to say that, you know,
again, I'm not talking about the short
term. You know, stocks could ride
another 20% tomorrow, they can go down
to 20%. But I think that, you know,
we've kind of borrowed from future
returns with the past returns we've seen
over the past couple years to get to
these to these to these valuations. Is
that true with credit as well? And I'm
wondering this given the fact that
spreads are pretty tight. They're the
tightest levels going back number of
years at a time when there are two
schools of thought. On one hand, don't
fight the Fed when the Fed's in an
easing cycle. That tends to be really
good for risk assets. On the other hand,
if they can justify significant rate
cuts because of weakness, not so great
for risk assets. So, which side of that
are you on? So, I think credit, there's
no question credit is is also pretty
fully valued, maybe even overvalued, but
there's a big difference between credit
and equities. You know, you and I, we
could sit here and talk about where
should the S&P trade, where should your
share of Apple trade. The reality is
there's nothing pulling it to any any
price. It's worth whatever the market
says it's worth. Bonds are different,
right? Yes, in the short term, bond
prices can move around, but unlike
equities, they're actually contracts.
They're legal obligations. So, there's
only two options. Either the company
pays me back or they don't pay me back.
So the question really is, you know, if
if you you have a you have this magic
model that tells you your bond's trading
at 6%. But you say that it should really
trade fair value at 7%. However you come
to that, that just means if you hold the
bond and it doesn't default, you'll earn
6%, not 7%. Not a disaster. I actually
think spreads are going to widen from
here. And I say this is someone who's
primarily focused on high yield, but the
way spreads are going to widen is that
we're going to see the short end as the
Fed starts to cut more than people
expect. We think the short end of the
curve high yield is pretty short 3 4
years right is going to is going to come
down. High yield yields will come down
as well but probably not as much. So the
spreads will widen but you'll still get
above coupon returns in high yield.
>> So you said that you think the Fed is
going to cut more than just once. What
kind of cycle do you think we're
actually going to see?
>> Well, again
>> every meeting after September.
>> I think based on what we know now. I I I
say this humbly as someone who
recognizes that almost everyone has
gotten what the Fed's going to do wrong
over the past couple of years. And I'm
don't think I have any insight. And by
the way, it should be hard to say what
the Fed is going to do. They should be
data dependent. They should see the
picture. We don't know what the next
couple inflation prints are going to be.
We don't know if the if the unemployment
rate is going to go closer to five,
right? But as it stands right now, we
think that it's it's the the they're
going to air on the side of caution of
worrying about the labor market and
they're going to cut three or four times
in the next few meetings. Hasn't the
chairman basically told us that we could
ignore hot inflation readings over the
next few months. When he comes out in a
speech and says you're going to get a
one-off inflation hit, but maybe not all
at once. Doesn't that set us up for the
next 6 months?
>> Well, it sets us up for what economists
were telling us originally with the
tariffs, it was going to be a a one-time
hit. Look, I think there's a lot of
evidence that, you know, if you look at
the difference between um goods and
services inflation, right? We're we're
and and also what we're seeing in the
labor markets. We're seeing kind of
manufacturing jobs cut. We're seeing
service jobs such as healthcare
increase, you know, and that that's hard
to say. That's probably the aging
population more so than it is anything
cyclical. Uh but look, at the end of the
day, I think we got to be honest also
the the the Fed, and I don't mean to
knock the Fed here, but the Fed, but I
am uh the Fed didn't see yours didn't it
didn't see inflation coming. I I didn't
see it either. You didn't see it either,
right? And it's it's very very hard even
when you're getting data in real time
because data is is by definition
backwards looking. So part of the job of
the Fed and look it's hard to the Fed
has I think done a pretty good job from
everything we could see now. The worry
has been for two years now that they're
going to be too slow to go the other way
and you know we're going to go into
recession that obviously hasn't happened
yet. We'll see what goes on going
forward.
>> I think Secretary Besson joked here in
New York you were in the room about
getting team tangency and getting the
band back together again.
>> Yeah. But also speaking of the Treasury
Secretary, he talked about the fact that
they want to see more of an Allen
Greenspan forwardlooking Fed, not a data
dependent Fed, which means that then J.
Pal was basically too late both times,
inflation and now potentially the labor
market weekend.
>> Feels like team transitory is getting
the ban back together again based on
recent comments from chairman Pal.
>> They got the ban back together when he
came out with that one line and said
that we can look through any kind of hot
readings. So that's why nobody cares
about Thursday's data until they do
until it comes out and it's a 10% level.
I'm not saying that that's what it is,
but if it is, then we have a different
conversation.
>> But you know what? No one cares about
what?
>> No one cares about the budget deficit
anymore. Oh, it it's gone. It's gone.
Problem solved. And that the reality, we
focus so much time on the Fed and the
reality is that the correlation between
what they do and the longer end of the
curve, which one could argue is more
important to the general health of the
economy. It's broken down and I think
it's going to continue to be that way
until there's a real problem.
>> Ganon, it's good to see you as always,
sir. We're out of time, but ultimately
I'd love to torture you for another 30
minutes on the same issue. I think we
all would. Gushian Distloud of Alliance
Bernstein. Coming up tomorrow, Peter
Chief of Academy, Jim Zela of Apollo,
Seth Carpenter of Morgan Stanley, Lisa
Hornby of Schroers from New York City
this morning. Good morning to you all.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.